The Project Gutenberg EBook of Buster Bear's Twins, by Thornton W. Burgess

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Buster Bear's Twins

Author: Thornton W. Burgess

Release Date: April 14, 2019 [EBook #59282]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BUSTER BEAR'S TWINS ***




Produced by Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)







[Illustration: MY, MY, HOW EXCITED THEY WERE AS MOTHER BEAR LED THE
WAY. _Page 27._]




  BUSTER BEAR’S TWINS

  BY

  THORNTON W. BURGESS

  _With Illustrations by_

  _HARRISON CADY_

  GROSSET & DUNLAP

  Publishers      New York

  _Printed by arrangement with Little, Brown, and Company_




  _Copyright, 1921, 1923_,

  BY THORNTON W. BURGESS.

  _All rights reserved_


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




  Dedication

  TO CHILDHOOD

  LITTLE HUMAN FOLK, LITTLE PEOPLE IN
  FUR AND FEATHERS AND ALL OTHER
  CHILDREN OF OLD MOTHER
  NATURE THIS BOOK
  IS DEDICATED




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                         PAGE

       I  MOTHER BEAR’S SECRET                       1

      II  PETER SCARES THE TWINS                     8

     III  PETER’S GLEE IS SHORT-LIVED               14

      IV  BOXER AND WOOF-WOOF                       20

       V  OUT IN THE GREAT WORLD                    26

      VI  THE TWINS CLIMB A TREE                    32

     VII  A SCARE THAT DIDN’T WORK                  39

    VIII  TOO LATE CHATTERER IS SORRY               46

      IX  THE TWINS HAVE TO GO HOME                 52

       X  THE TWINS GET EVEN WITH PETER RABBIT      58

      XI  PETER IS IN A TIGHT PLACE                 64

     XII  PETER TAKES A CHANCE                      69

    XIII  A GREAT MIX-UP OF LITTLE BEARS            74

     XIV  TWO FOOLISH-FEELING LITTLE BEARS          80

      XV  THE TWINS MEET THEIR FATHER               86

     XVI  THE TWINS TAKE TO A TREE                  92

    XVII  MOTHER COMES TO THE RESCUE                98

   XVIII  THE TWINS ARE COMFORTED                  104

     XIX  THE CUBS TALK IT OVER                    110

      XX  THE TWINS GET THEIR FIRST BATH           116

     XXI  THE TWINS ARE STILL PUZZLED              123

    XXII  BOXER GETS A SPANKING                    129

   XXIII  BOXER IS SULKY                           135

    XXIV  BOXER STARTS OUT TO GET EVEN             141

     XXV  CHATTERER HAS FUN WITH BOXER             147

    XXVI  ALONE AND LOST IN THE GREAT WORLD        153

   XXVII  A DREADFUL NIGHT FOR A LITTLE BEAR       159

  XXVIII  BOXER GETS HIS OWN BREAKFAST             165

    XXIX  BOXER HAS A PAINFUL LESSON               171

     XXX  BOXER IS SADDER BUT MUCH WISER           177

    XXXI  BOXER MEETS A POLITE LITTLE FELLOW       183

   XXXII  BOXER WISHES HE HADN’T                   189

  XXXIII  WOOF-WOOF TURNS UP HER NOSE              195

   XXXIV  ALL IS WELL AT LAST                      201




ILLUSTRATIONS


  My, my, how excited they were as
  Mother Bear led the way.              _Frontispiece_

                                           FACING PAGE

  Boxer climbed up on the pile of brush
  and jumped up and down.                           72

  It was the first time they ever had
  been in the water all over.                      120

  He pitched heels over head down the
  bank of the Laughing Brook.                      164




BUSTER BEAR’S TWINS




CHAPTER I

MOTHER BEAR’S SECRET

  The best kept secret soon or late
  Will be found out as sure as fate.

                      _Mother Bear._


Have you ever wanted to be in a number of places at the same time? Then
you know exactly how Peter Rabbit felt in the beautiful springtime. You
see, there was so much going on everywhere all the time that Peter felt
sure he was missing something, no matter how much he saw and heard. In
that he was quite right.

But you may be sure Peter did his best not to miss any more than he had
to. He scampered lipperty-lipperty-lip this way, lipperty-lipperty-lip
that way, and lipperty-lipperty-lip the other way, watching, listening,
asking questions and making a nuisance of himself generally. For a
while there were so many new arrivals in the Old Orchard and on the
Green Meadows, feathered friends returning from the Sunny South and in
a great hurry to begin housekeeping, and strangers passing through on
their way to the Far North, that Peter hardly gave the Green Forest a
thought.

But one moonlight night he happened to think of Paddy the Beaver and
that he hadn’t seen Paddy since before Paddy’s pond froze over early in
the winter.

“I must run over and pay him my respects,” thought Peter.

“I certainly must. I wonder if he is as glad as the rest of us that
Sweet Mistress Spring is here.”

No sooner did he think of this than Peter started,
lipperty-lipperty-lip, through the Green Forest for the pond of Paddy
the Beaver. Now the nearest way was past the great windfall where Mrs.
Bear made her home. Peter hadn’t thought of this when he started. He
didn’t think of it until he came in sight of it. The instant he saw
that old windfall he stopped short. He remembered Mrs. Bear and that he
had heard that she had a secret. Instantly curiosity took possession of
him. He forgot all about Paddy the Beaver.

For some time Peter sat perfectly still, looking and listening. There
was no sign of Mrs. Bear. Was she under that windfall in her bedroom
taking a nap, or was she off somewhere? Peter wished he knew. It was
such a lovely night that he had a feeling Mrs. Bear was out somewhere.
A hop at a time, pausing to look and listen between hops, Peter drew
nearer to the great windfall. Still there was no sign of Mrs. Bear.

With his heart going pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, Peter drew nearer
and nearer to the great windfall, and at last was close to it on the
side opposite to Mrs. Bear’s entrance. Taking care not to so much as
rustle a dry leaf on the ground, Peter stole around the end of the
great windfall until he could see the entrance Mrs. Bear always used.
No one was in sight. Peter drew a long breath and hopped a little
nearer. He felt very brave and bold, but you may be sure that at the
same time he was ready to jump and run, as only he can at the least
hint of danger.

For a long time Peter sat and stared at that entrance and wished he
dared just poke his head inside. If Mrs. Bear really had a secret, it
was somewhere inside there. Anyway, that is what old Granny Fox had
said. He had almost worked his courage up to the point of taking just
one hurried little peek in that entrance when his long ears caught a
faint rustling sound under the great windfall.

Peter scurried off to a safe distance, then turned and stared at that
entrance. He half expected to see Mrs. Bear’s great head come poking
out and he was ready to take to his heels. Instead a very small head
and then another close beside it appeared.

Peter was so surprised he nearly fell over backward. Then in a flash it
came to him that he knew Mrs. Bear’s secret. It was out at last. Yes,
sir, it was out at last. Mrs. Bear had a family! Mrs. Bear and Buster
Bear had twins!




CHAPTER II

PETER SCARES THE TWINS

  For timid folk no joy is quite
  Like giving other folks a fright.

                     _Mother Bear._


It isn’t often that Peter Rabbit has a chance to scare any one. You
know he is such a timid fellow himself that he is the one who usually
gets the fright. So when he does happen to scare some one it always
amuses him. Somehow he always has more respect for himself.

When on that moonlight night he discovered Mrs. Bear’s secret, he had
the most mixed feelings he ever had known. First came surprise, as
he saw those two little heads poked out of Mrs. Bear’s entrance. He
was sitting up very straight and the surprise was so great that he all
but tumbled over backwards. You see, there was no mistaking those two
little heads for any but those of baby Bears! He knew that those were
two Bear cubs, Mrs. Bear’s babies, the secret she had kept hidden so
long under the great windfall.

And his surprise at seeing those two little heads was only a little
greater than his surprise at the smallness of them. So for perhaps
two minutes Peter sat motionless, quite overcome with surprise, as he
stared at those two funny little heads poked out from the entrance
under the great windfall. Then all in a flash he understood the cause
of Mrs. Bear’s short temper and the reason she drove everybody away
from there, and he felt a sudden panic of fright.

“This is no place for me,” thought Peter, “and the sooner I get away
from here the better.” He looked hastily all about. There was no sign
of Mrs. Bear. Right then and there curiosity returned in full force.

“I wish those youngsters would come out where I can look at them and
just see how big they are,” thought Peter. “It seems safe enough here
now, and perhaps if I wait a few minutes they will come out.”

So Peter waited. Sure enough, in a few minutes the two little cubs did
come out. Plainly it was their first glimpse of the Green Forest, and
Peter almost laughed right out at the look of wonder on their faces as
they stared all about in the moonlight. But not even his first surprise
was greater than Peter’s surprise now as he saw how small they were.

“Why,” he exclaimed to himself, “why-ee, they are no bigger than I! I
didn’t suppose any one so big as great big Mrs. Bear could have such
small children. I wonder how old they are. I wonder how big they were
when they were born. I wonder if they will grow fast. I wonder if they
will go about with Mrs. Bear. I suppose Buster Bear is their father,
and I wonder if he ever comes to see them. They look to me rather
wobbly on their legs. I wonder if Mrs. Bear told them they could come
out.”

And then the imp of mischief whispered to Peter. “I wonder if I can
scare them,” thought Peter. “It would be great fun to scare a Bear,
even if it is nothing but a cub, and to scare two at once would be
greater fun.”

Peter suddenly thumped the ground very hard with his hind feet. It was
so still there in the Green Forest that that thump sounded very loud.
The two little cubs gave a startled look towards Peter. As he sat up
straight in the moonlight, he looked very big. That is, he did to those
two little cubs who never had seen him before.

With funny little whimpers of fright they turned and fairly tumbled
over each other as they scurried back through the entrance under the
great windfall. Peter laughed and laughed until his sides ached. He,
Peter Rabbit, actually had frightened two Bears and made them run. Now
he would have something to boast about.




CHAPTER III

PETER’S GLEE IS SHORT-LIVED

  You’ll find it very seldom pays
  To play a joke that works both ways.

                        _Mother Bear._


As two frightened little cubs ran, whimpering and tumbling over each
other, for the safety of the bedroom under the great windfall, Peter
Rabbit thumped twice more just by way of adding to their fright. It was
most unkind of Peter. Of course. He should have been ashamed of trying
to frighten babies, and those two cubs were babies and nothing more.
They were baby Bears.

But Peter had so often felt little cold chills of fear chasing each
other up and down his backbone in the presence of Buster Bear and Mrs.
Bear that it tickled him to be able to scare any Bears, big or little.
Truth to tell, it gave him a feeling as if somehow he was getting even
with Buster and Mrs. Bear. Of course he wasn’t. Certainly not. But he
had that feeling, and he didn’t once stop to think how cowardly it was
to frighten babies, even though they were Bear babies.

After the two cubs had disappeared, he could hear them scrambling along
under the great windfall as they hurried for the darkest corner of that
dark bedroom where Mother Bear had left them when she went out to look
for something to eat. All the way there they whimpered just as if they
thought some dreadful enemy was after them. Peter laughed until his
sides ached and the tears came to his eyes.

An angry growl right behind him put a sudden end to Peter’s laughter
and glee. It was his turn to run headlong and to whimper as he ran. My,
what jumps he made! It seemed as if his feet barely touched the ground
before he was in the air again. If those little cubs had been scared,
Peter was twice as scared. They had run without knowing what they ran
from. But Peter knew what he was running from. He was running from an
angry mother, and that mother was a Bear. It was enough to make anybody
run.

Peter had been so intent on frightening those little cubs and then
laughing at them that he had not heard Mother Bear until she had given
that angry growl right behind him. Then he hadn’t stopped to explain.
Peter believes in running first and explaining later. But at the rate
he was going now, there wouldn’t be any explaining, because by the time
he stopped Mother Bear wouldn’t be near enough to hear a word he said.

The fact is Mother Bear didn’t follow Peter. She simply growled once
or twice in her deepest, most grumbly-rumbly voice just to add a little
speed to Peter’s long legs, if that were possible. Then as she watched
Peter run headlong she grinned. Just as Peter had laughed at the fright
of the little cubs, Mother Bear grinned at Peter’s fright.

“I hope that will teach him a lesson,” muttered Mrs. Bear, way down in
her throat. “I don’t want that long-eared bunch of curiosity hanging
around here. He got a glimpse of those youngsters of mine, and now my
secret will be out. Well, I suppose it would have had to be out soon.”

Mrs. Bear turned into the entrance to her bedroom under the
windfall, while Peter Rabbit kept on, lipperty-lipperty-lip,
lipperty-lipperty-lip, through the Green Forest towards the Green
Meadows and the dear Old Briar-patch. He was eager to get there and
tell the news of Mrs. Bear’s long-kept secret.




CHAPTER IV

BOXER AND WOOF-WOOF

  ’Tis sometimes well, it seems to me,
  To see, but appear not to see.

                        _Mother Bear._


Not in all the Green Forest could two livelier or more mischievous
little folks be found than Boxer and Woof-Woof. Boxer was just a wee
bit bigger than his sister, but he was no smarter, nor was he the least
bit quicker. For more than three months they had lived under the great
windfall in the Green Forest without even once poking their funny
little noses outside. You see, when they were born they were very small
and helpless.

And the first time they had poked their heads out, Peter Rabbit had
given them a terrible scare by thumping the ground with his hind feet.
Safely back in their bedroom they snuggled together.

“Who do you suppose that terrible fellow was?” whispered Woof-Woof. How
that would have pleased Peter could he have heard it!

“I haven’t the least idea,” replied Boxer. “I guess we are lucky to be
safely back here. Did you notice how his ears stood up?”

“We must ask Mother Bear about him,” said Woof-Woof. “He was only
about our size, and perhaps he isn’t so terrible after all. Here she
comes now.”

“Let’s not say anything about it,” whispered Boxer hurriedly. “You know
she told us not to go outside. We may see him again sometime and then
we can ask her.”

So when Mrs. Bear arrived she found Boxer and Woof-Woof curled up with
their arms around each other and looking as innocent as it was possible
for baby Bears to look. Mother Bear grinned. She knew just what had
happened out there, for she had seen it all. You remember that she had
frightened Peter Rabbit even more than he had frightened the cubs. But
she wisely decided that she would say nothing about it then.

“These cubs have had their first lesson in life,” thought she, as she
watched them trying so hard to appear to be asleep. “They disobeyed
and as a result they got a great fright. I won’t tell them that Peter
Rabbit is one of the most harmless fellows in all the Great World. They
will remember this fright longer if I don’t. These scamps are growing
like weeds. They went outside tonight while I was away, and that
means that it is time to take them out and show them something of the
Great World. If I don’t, they will try it again while I am away, and
something might happen to them. They are still so small that if Old Man
Coyote should happen to find one of them alone I am afraid the sly old
sinner would make an end of that cub.”

She poked the two cubs. “You’re not asleep,” said she. “Don’t think you
can fool your mother. To-morrow morning you can go outside and play a
little while, providing you will promise not to go more than one jump
away from the entrance to this home of ours. There are great dangers in
the Green Forest for little Bears.”

Of course Boxer and Woof-Woof promised, and so for several mornings
they played just outside the entrance while their mother pretended to
take a nap. It was then that Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Sammy Jay
and Blacky the Crow had great fun frightening those twin cubs. And
they didn’t know, nor did the twins, that all the time Mother Bear knew
just what was going on and was keeping quiet so that the twins might
learn for themselves.




CHAPTER V

OUT IN THE GREAT WORLD

  The Great World calls, and soon or late
  Must each obey and rule his fate.

                           _Mother Bear._


Not in all the Green Forest is there a wiser or better mother than Mrs.
Bear. No one knows better than she the dangers of the Great World, or
the importance of learning early in life all those things which a Bear
who would live to a good old age should know. So after allowing the
twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof, to play around the entrance to their home
under the great windfall for a few days, she took them for their first
walk in the Green Forest.

“Now,” said she, as she prepared to lead the way, “you are to do just
as I do. You are to follow right at my heels, and the one who turns
aside for anything without my permission will be spanked. Do you
understand?”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer and Woof-Woof meekly.

My, my, my, how excited they were as Mother Bear led the way out from
under the old windfall! This was to be a great, a wonderful adventure.
They tingled all over. They were actually going out to see something of
the Great World.

The first thing Mother Bear did was to sit up and carefully test
the wind with her nose. Boxer sat up and did exactly the same thing.
Woof-Woof sat up and did exactly the same thing. The Merry Little
Breezes tickled their noses with many scents. Mother Bear knew what
each one was, but of course the twins didn’t know any of them. All they
knew was that they smelled good.

Mother Bear cocked her ears forward and listened. Boxer cocked his ears
forward and listened. Woof-Woof cocked her ears forward and listened.
Mother Bear looked this way and looked that way. Boxer looked this way
and looked that way. So did Woof-Woof.

“These are the things you must always do whenever you start out in the
Great World,” explained Mother Bear in her deep, grumbly-rumbly voice.
“You must learn to know the meaning of every scent that reaches your
nose, of every sound that reaches your ears, of everything you see, for
only by such knowledge can you keep out of danger. But you must never
trust your ears or your eyes only. Your nose is more to be trusted than
either ears or eyes or both ears and eyes. But always use all three.”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer and Woof-Woof.

Then Mother Bear started off among the great trees, shuffling along
and swinging her head from side to side. Right at her heels shuffled
Boxer, swinging his head from side to side, and right at his heels
shuffled Woof-Woof, swinging her head from side to side. Whatever
Mother Bear did the twins did. They did it because Mother Bear did it.
They were keeping their promise. And little as they were, they felt
very big and important, for now at last they were out in the Great
World.

Chatterer the Red Squirrel saw them start out, and he chuckled as he
watched those two funny little cubs do exactly as Mother Bear did. He
followed along in the tree tops, jumping from tree to tree, but taking
the greatest care to make no noise. He was fairly aching for a chance
to scare those cubs. But as long as Mother Bear was with them, he
didn’t dare to try.

Mother Bear stopped and sniffed at an old log. Then she went on.
Boxer stopped and solemnly sniffed at that old log. Then he went on.
Woof-Woof stopped and sniffed at that old log. Then she went on. And so
at last they came to a place where the earth was soft and where grew
certain roots of which Mrs. Bear is very fond.




CHAPTER VI

THE TWINS CLIMB A TREE

  Those climb the highest who have dared
  To keep on climbing when most scared.

                          _Mother Bear._


When Mother Bear reached the place where grew the roots of which she
was so fond, she led the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof, over to a big
tree, stood up and dug her great claws into the bark above her head. Of
course Boxer did the same thing. Mother Bear gave him a push. Boxer was
so surprised that without realizing what he was doing he pulled himself
up a little higher, clinging to the tree with the claws of all four
feet and hugging the trunk with arms and legs.

“Go right on up,” said Mother Bear in her deep, grumbly-rumbly voice.
“Go right on up until you reach those branches up there. There is
nothing to fear. Those claws were given you for climbing, and it
is time for you to learn how to use them. When you get up to those
branches, you stay up there until I tell you to come down. If you
don’t, you will be spanked. Now up with you! Let me see you climb.”

Boxer scrambled a little higher. Mother Bear turned and started
Woof-Woof up after Boxer. It was a strange experience for the twins.
Never before had they been above the ground, and it frightened them.
They scrambled a little way then looked down and whimpered. Then they
looked up at the branches above them. To Boxer and Woof-Woof those
branches seemed a terrible distance up. They seemed way, way up in the
sky. Really they were not very high up at all. But you remember the
twins were very little, and this was their first climb.

So they stopped and whimpered and looked down longingly at the ground.
But right under them stood Mother Bear, and there was a look in her
eyes that told them she intended to be obeyed. Having her standing
right below them gave them courage. So Boxer scrambled a little
higher. Then Woof-Woof, who simply couldn’t allow her brother to do
anything she didn’t do, scrambled a little higher. Boxer started again.
Woof-Woof followed. And so at last they reached the branches. Then and
not until then Mother Bear left the foot of the tree and shuffled off
to dig for roots.

The instant they got hold of those branches the twins felt safe. They
forgot their fears. Quite unexpectedly they felt very much at home. And
of course they felt very big and bold. For a while they were content
to sit and look down at the wonderful Great World. It seemed to them
that from way up there they must be looking at nearly all of the Great
World. Of course, they really were looking at only a very small part
of the Green Forest. But it was very, very wonderful to the twins, and
they looked and looked and for a long time they didn’t say a word.

By and by they noticed Mother Bear digging roots some distance away.
“Isn’t it funny that Mother Bear has grown so much smaller?” ventured
Woof-Woof.

Boxer looked puzzled. Mother Bear certainly did look smaller. Even
as he watched she moved farther away, and the farther she went the
smaller she seemed to be. Boxer held on with one hand and scratched his
head with the other. For the first time in his life he was doing some
real thinking. “I don’t believe she can be any smaller,” said he. “It
must be she looks smaller because she is so far away. That old log down
there looks smaller than it did when we stopped and sniffed at it. Some
of those young trees that looked tall when we passed under them don’t
look tall at all now. I guess the way a thing looks depends on how near
it is!”

Of course Boxer was quite right in this. He was already beginning to
learn, beginning to use those lively wits which Old Mother Nature had
put in that funny little head of his.




CHAPTER VII

A SCARE THAT DIDN’T WORK

  Take my advice and pray beware
  Of how you try to scare a Bear.

                   _Mother Bear._


Chatterer the Red Squirrel was indignant. He was very indignant. In
fact Chatterer was angry. You know he is short-tempered and it doesn’t
take a great deal to make him lose his temper. He had watched Mrs.
Bear and the twins start out from the great windfall and had silently
followed, keeping in the tree tops as much as possible, and taking the
greatest care not to let Mrs. Bear or the twins know that he was about.

Inside he had chuckled to see the twins do exactly what Mother Bear
did. When she sat up and they sat up beside her, they looked so funny
that he had hard work to keep from laughing right out. He had seen many
funny things in the Green Forest, but nothing quite so funny as those
two little Bears, hardly bigger than Peter Rabbit, gravely doing just
exactly what their mother did.

So Chatterer followed, all the time hoping for a chance to give those
twins a scare. But he didn’t want to try it while Mother Bear was
around. So he waited, hoping that she would leave them alone for a few
minutes. Finally Mother Bear set the twins to climbing a tree. It was
then that Chatterer became so very indignant. His sharp eyes snapped as
he watched the twins scramble up that tree. He hoped they would fall.
Yes, sir, Chatterer really hoped those twin cubs would fall.

You see, the trouble was that Chatterer didn’t like the idea of those
little Bears learning to climb trees. He felt that the trees belonged
to the Squirrel family. It was bad enough to have Bobby Coon and
Unc’ Billy Possum climbing them. Now to have two lively little Bears
learning to climb was too much. It was altogether too much.

“They haven’t any business in trees,” sputtered Chatterer to himself,
taking care not to be heard. “They haven’t any business in trees. They
belong on the ground, not in trees. I won’t have them in the trees! I
won’t! I won’t!”

Now of course Chatterer knew, right down in his heart, that those cubs
had just as much right in the trees as had he.

The real truth of the matter was that so long as those little cubs
remained on the ground, Chatterer feared them not at all. He could
be as saucy and impudent to them as he pleased. He could tease them
and try to scare them and feel quite safe about it, so long as their
mother wasn’t about. But if those cubs were going to learn to climb,
and he had a feeling that they would make very good climbers, matters
might be altogether different.

Chatterer watched the twins and he watched Mother Bear. At last the
latter disappeared from sight. Unseen by the twins, Chatterer leaped
across to the very tree in which they were sitting, but above them.
“I’ll give them such a scare that they will either fall down or will
scramble down and never’ll want to climb another tree,” muttered
Chatterer.

Silently he crept up behind them; then he opened his mouth and yelled
at them. “Get down out of this tree!” he yelled. “Get down out of this
tree!”

He was so close to those little Bears that his voice seemed to be in
their very ears. They recognized it as a voice which had scared them
two or three times when they had first come out of the great windfall
to play. It was so close and so unexpected that it startled them so
that they almost let go their hold. Then Boxer turned and for the first
time had a good view of Chatterer. He was looking at a very angry Red
Squirrel. But instead of being afraid and starting to scramble down
from that tree, as Chatterer had expected him to do, Boxer suddenly
started straight for him, and it was plain to see that Boxer was an
angry small Bear.




CHAPTER VIII

TOO LATE CHATTERER IS SORRY

  Of yourself to hold command
  Keep your temper well in hand.

                  _Mother Bear._


The best laid plans, even those of the smartest of Red Squirrels,
sometimes go wrong. Chatterer’s plan had gone wrong, just about as
wrong as it could go. Those provoking twins, instead of being scared
into falling or scrambling down from that tree, had been made angry and
actually were starting after him. Boxer started first and Woof-Woof
promptly followed. You know whatever Boxer did, Woof-Woof did.

Now Chatterer hadn’t reckoned on any such thing as this happening. Not
at all. And like most people who try to scare babies, Chatterer is not
at all brave. Most of his bravery is in his tongue. For just an instant
he was too surprised to move. Even his tongue was still. Then he turned
and ran up that tree as fast as he could.

The twins came scrambling after, and they came surprisingly fast. You
see, there were plenty of branches to hold on to, so they had no fear
of falling. Chatterer was so scared that he didn’t use those usually
quick wits of his, and he ran up past the only branch of that tree that
reached out near enough to another tree for him to jump across. When
he thought of it, it was too late. Yes, sir, it was too late. Boxer was
already standing on that very branch.

Chatterer felt then that he was trapped. He couldn’t jump across to
another tree. He didn’t dare try to get down past those twins. He
wouldn’t think of jumping down to the ground, unless he was actually
obliged to, for it was a dreadful jump. All he could do was to climb
higher and hope those twins would be afraid to follow him.

But by this time Boxer and Woof-Woof were enjoying the chase. They were
enjoying the fun of climbing, and they were enjoying the discovery that
they were no longer afraid of this saucy, red-coated scamp, but that
he was afraid of them.

“See him run!” cried Boxer. “Come on, Woof-Woof, let’s catch him! He is
so small and quick that he can get about faster than we can, but we are
two and he is only one. Between us we ought to be able to catch him.”

Woof-Woof was quite willing, and they climbed on up after Chatterer.
Chatterer’s tongue was still now. He made no sound. He no longer called
names. He no longer made faces. He no longer looked saucy or impudent.
He looked exactly what he was, a badly scared Red Squirrel. He was
sorry now that he had lost his temper and tried to scare those twins.
He was very, very sorry. But it was too late. Being sorry didn’t help
him any now.

He was in a bad scrape, was Chatterer, and he knew it. Either of those
twin Bears was much bigger than he, although they were little more than
babies. They had found him out and had already discovered that they had
nothing to fear from him and that he was afraid of them. It was plain
to see that they were having a good time. They were enjoying the chase.
Chatterer looked down at their sharp little claws and more than ever he
was sorry he had not let them alone.

By this time Chatterer was clinging to the very top of that tree. If
those twins came up there, he would have to make the terrible jump
to the ground. He shivered as he looked down. Would those surprising
twins, or one of them, be able to get up near enough to reach him?




CHAPTER IX

THE TWINS HAVE TO GO HOME

  Obedience is good to see,
  Especially when up a tree.

              _Mother Bear._


Boxer and Woof-Woof were having the best time of their short lives.
Climbing was great fun. Although this was the first time they had
climbed a tree, they already felt quite at home up there where the
branches grew. It was fun just to climb from branch to branch. It was
still greater fun to chase that red-coated little rascal who had tried
to scare them out of that tree. You see, this was the first time the
twins had found any one afraid of them, and it made them feel quite
important. It made them feel big. They felt twice as big as when they
had whimperingly started to climb that tree. So the twins were having a
wonderful time.

But Chatterer the Red Squirrel was having anything but a wonderful
time. He was wishing with all his might that he had kept his saucy
tongue still; that he had not jumped over into that tree to try to
scare those cubs; that he had not followed them in the first place;
that they would become dizzy and afraid. He even wished that they would
fall. The fact is, Chatterer was so badly frightened that he was
capable of wishing almost anything dreadful if it would only give him a
chance to escape.

Now if Chatterer had not been so badly frightened, he would have seen
that Boxer, the twin who was in the lead, was already hesitating. He
had reached a point where the branches were so small that they bent
dangerously when he stepped on them. He had climbed as high as it was
safe for him to climb, and he knew it. But having set out to catch that
red mischief-maker, he couldn’t bear to give up. That is, he felt that
if he did give up, Chatterer would boast that he had been too smart for
the cubs and would make fun of them. And this is just what Chatterer
would have done.

So while Chatterer was wishing with all his might that something would
happen to those twins, the twins were wishing for some good excuse for
stopping the chase without losing the respect they knew Chatterer now
had for them.

Just then a deep, grumbly-rumbly voice came up to them from the foot
of the tree. “Come down at once,” said the voice. It was the voice of
Mother Bear.

“Yes’m,” replied Woof-Woof meekly, beginning to climb down.

“I want to catch this fellow who tried to scare us,” whined Boxer,
pretending that he didn’t want to come down.

“You heard what I said,” replied Mother Bear, and her voice was more
grumbly-rumbly than before. “It is time to go home. Come down this
instant.”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer, and this time he said it quite as meekly as had
his sister Woof-Woof. There was something in the sound of Mother Bear’s
voice that warned Boxer that it would be unwise to disobey.

So, with a warning to Chatterer that next time he would not get off
so easily, Boxer began to climb down after Woof-Woof. When the cubs
reached the lowest branches and had only the straight trunk to which
to cling, they were once more afraid, and all the way down they
whimpered. Somehow it was harder to climb down than up. It often is.
But at last they were on the ground. Mother Bear’s eyes twinkled with
pride, but she took care that the cubs should not see this.

“Obedience,” said she, “is the first great lesson in life. It saved you
a spanking this time.” Then she led the way home.

And as Boxer and Woof-Woof followed, doing exactly as she did, they
heard the jeering voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel.

“Couldn’t catch me! Couldn’t catch me!” jeered Chatterer.




CHAPTER X

THE TWINS GET EVEN WITH PETER RABBIT

  It isn’t nice; it isn’t kind;
    ’Tis not at all the thing to do;
  But those who do not take a chance
    Of getting even are but few.

                      _Mother Bear._


This is sad but true. It is so everywhere in the Great World, and the
Great World would be a much better place in which to live if it were
not so. It is the desire to get even that makes much of the trouble and
the hard feeling and the unhappiness everywhere. But there are times
when getting even certainly does give a lot of satisfaction. It was so
with the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof.

You remember that the very first time they ventured out from under the
great windfall Peter Rabbit had given them a great fright by thumping
the ground with his hind-feet as only Peter can thump. The twins were
so small then and they knew so little of the Great World, in fact
nothing at all, that Peter had seemed to them a terrible fellow. They
never had forgotten him. Whenever they were outside the great windfall,
they watched for him, ready to run at sight of him.

But it was a long time before they saw Peter again, and when they did
they had grown so that they were considerably bigger than he. Besides,
they had been out on several trips into the Great World with Mother
Bear and had learned many things, for little Bears learn very fast and
have the best of memories. At last they saw Peter again. It happened
this way:

Peter had stayed away from the Green Forest as long as he could. Then
curiosity to see what was going on over there had been too much for
him, and he had started over to visit Paddy the Beaver. He took great
care to keep away from the great windfall where Mother Bear and the
twins lived. As curious as he was about those twins, and much as he
wanted to see them again, he was too much afraid of Mrs. Bear and her
short temper to take any chances. But he felt that it would be quite
safe to visit Paddy the Beaver, for Paddy’s pond was some distance from
the great windfall.

Now Peter didn’t know that Mother Bear was in the habit of taking the
twins with her wherever she went. It just happened that this very day
she had chosen to go over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver. The twins
had played until they were tired and then had curled up for a nap in a
sunny spot while their mother went fishing in the Laughing Brook.

When Peter arrived in sight of Paddy’s pond Mother Bear was hidden
behind some brush a little way up the Laughing Brook, and was sitting
quietly waiting for a fish to come within reach. For once Peter was
careless. He was so intent looking for Paddy the Beaver that he didn’t
use his eyes and ears for other things, as he should have. So he passed
within a few feet of the twins without seeing them. Just beyond he sat
up to look over the pond for Paddy.

Now the twins slept each with an ear open, as the saying is, and they
heard Peter pass. Open flew their eyes, and they saw at once that it
was the terrible fellow who had so frightened them once. But somehow
he no longer looked terrible. He was smaller than they had thought. In
fact, they were now considerably bigger than he. You see, they had been
growing very fast. Boxer’s eyes twinkled. Perhaps this fellow was like
Chatterer the Red Squirrel, bold and terrible only to those who feared
him. He nudged Woof-Woof. Very softly they got to their feet and stole
up behind Peter.

A twig snapped under Boxer’s feet. Peter turned. His eyes seemed to
pop right out of his head. With a squeal of fright, Peter jumped and
started, lipperty-lipperty-lip, for the nearest pile of brush, and
after him raced the twins. They knew now that this terrible fellow was
more afraid of them than ever they had been of him, and they meant to
get even for the fright he had given them when they were so little. It
was great fun.




CHAPTER XI

PETER IS IN A TIGHT PLACE

  When you are in a place that’s tight
  It is no time to think of fright.

                        _Mother Bear._


Boxer and Woof-Woof were having no end of fun. Having chased Peter
Rabbit under a pile of brush, they were now trying to catch him. It
was even more fun than it had been to try to catch Chatterer the Red
Squirrel in the top of a tree.

But for Peter Rabbit it was no fun at all. The truth is, Peter was in
a tight place and he knew it. Never had he been more badly frightened.
It would have been bad enough had there been only one little Bear. Two
little Bears made it more than twice as bad.

In the first place they were very lively, were those two little Bears.
Peter hadn’t known that little Bears could be so lively. You see, these
were the first he ever had seen. The way in which they ran around that
pile of brush showed how very quick on their feet they were. Peter
didn’t doubt that he could outrun them if he could get a fair start;
the trouble was to get that fair start. He wished now that he had
trusted to his long legs instead of seeking shelter under that pile
of brush. He had done that in the suddenness of his fright, when
the little Bears had surprised him. It is Peter’s nature to seek a
hiding-place in time of danger, and usually this is the wisest thing
for him to do.

“I see him!” cried Boxer, poking his funny little head under the brush
on one side. “I’ll crawl under and drive him out to you, Woof-Woof!”

On the other side of the brush pile Woof-Woof danced up and down
excitedly. “I’ll get him! I’ll get him!” she cried. “Drive him out,
Boxer! Drive him out!”

“Ouch!” cried Boxer, as a sharp stick scratched his face. “He’s
crawling towards the end, Woof-Woof! Watch out!”

“Which end?” cried Woof-Woof, running from one end to the other and
back again.

“Ouch! Wow! I’m stuck!” came the voice of Boxer. A minute later he
backed out. “No use; I can’t get under there,” he panted. “I’ll jump on
top, and see if I can’t scare him out that way.”

So Boxer climbed up on the pile of brush and jumped up and down, while
Woof-Woof ran back and forth around the edge of the pile of brush,
stopping to peep under at every opening.

“I see him! I see him, Boxer!” she cried, and began to wriggle in under
the brush as Boxer had done.

But she didn’t go far. She soon found that Peter could get through
places where she couldn’t. Besides, it seemed as if sharp sticks
were reaching for her from every direction. Twice she squealed as
she scratched her face on them. “How do you like it,” called Boxer,
grinning at the sound of those squeals.

Woof-Woof backed out and brushed bits of bark from her coat, for she
was much neater than her brother. “I tell you what,” said she, “let’s
pull this pile of brush all apart. Then we’ll get him.”

So the twins set to work, one on one side and one on the other, to pull
that pile of brush apart. Yes, Peter Rabbit certainly was in a tight
place.




CHAPTER XII

PETER TAKES A CHANCE

  Who never takes a chance confesses
  That he a coward’s heart possesses.

                       _Mother Bear._


Those twin cubs were very much like some boys and girls. They were like
them in that they were wholly thoughtless. They were having a splendid
time as they tried to catch Peter Rabbit. They hadn’t had so much fun
for days. Not once did it pop into their funny little heads that Peter
was suffering because of their fun. No, sir, they didn’t once think of
that.

But Peter was suffering. Peter was suffering from fright, and that
kind of suffering often is worse than suffering from pain. He was sure
that those cubs meant to kill him and eat him. As a matter of fact,
such an idea hadn’t entered the heads of the twins. You see, they were
still too young to eat meat. All they were thinking of was the fun of
catching Peter and getting even with him for the scare he had once
given them.

Peter didn’t know this. Many people had tried to catch him, and every
one of them had wanted him for a dinner. So Peter was sure that this
was why Boxer and Woof-Woof were trying so hard to catch him. As he
dodged about under that pile of brush, his heart was in his mouth most
of the time. At least, that is the way it seemed to him. But this was
nothing to the way he felt when those cubs began to pull apart that
pile of brush. Then for a minute despair took possession of Peter.

But it was only for a minute. Peter had been in many tight places
before, and he had learned that giving up to despair is no way to get
out of tight places.

“If I stay here, they will get me,” thought Peter. “If I take a chance
and run they may get me, in which case I will be no worse off. But they
may not get me; so I think I’ll take the chance.”

He listened to those excited little cubs working with might and main
to pull that pile of brush apart. One was on one side and one was on
the other. He might get out at either end between them and get a start
before they saw him. He started to creep towards one end, but snapped
a dead twig, and the quick ears of Boxer heard it. “He’s coming out!”
squealed Boxer, and ran around to that end.

Peter crept back to the middle. In a minute or so Boxer was back,
pulling apart that brush. Then an old saying of his mother’s popped
into Peter’s head. He had heard her say it many times when he was
little and first venturing out into the Great World.

[Illustration: BOXER CLIMBED UP ON THE PILE OF BRUSH AND JUMPED UP AND
DOWN. _Page 67._]

“When you must take a chance, always do the thing no one expects you to
do,” was what his mother had said over and over again.

“Those cubs expect me to run out at one end or the other,” thought
Peter. “They don’t expect me to run out where either is at work. To do
that will take them by surprise. It is my best chance. Yes, sir, it is
my best chance.”

Peter crept toward the edge where Boxer was at work tearing that brush
apart. Once more his heart seemed to be in his mouth, and it was going
pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat. Watching his chance, he darted out under Boxer’s
very nose.




CHAPTER XIII

A GREAT MIX-UP OF LITTLE BEARS

  If I blame you and you blame me
  ’Tis clear we’re bound to disagree.

                       _Mother Bear._


When Peter darted out under the very nose of Boxer, the little Bear was
so surprised that for a couple of seconds he didn’t do a thing. This
was what Peter had counted on. It gave him a fair start. Then with a
squeal Boxer started after him.

“He’s out! He’s out! Come on, Woof-Woof! We’ll catch him now!” cried
Boxer, and he was so excited that he stumbled over his own feet as he
started after Peter.

When Peter came out from under that pile of brush, he turned to the
left and started around the end of it, lipperty-lipperty-lip, as fast
as he could go. Again Peter was doing the unexpected. He knew that
Woof-Woof was on the other side of that pile of brush, and he knew that
she knew that he knew she was there. Of course, she wouldn’t expect him
to run around where she was. That would be the last thing in the world
she would expect.

So this is just what Peter did do. Around the end of that pile of
brush, lipperty-lipperty-lip, raced Peter, with Boxer at his heels.
Just as expected he met Woof-Woof running as fast as she could. Peter
dodged as only Peter can. Woof-Woof was running so fast she couldn’t
stop instantly. Boxer was running so fast he couldn’t stop.

Perhaps you can guess what happened. Those two little Bears ran into
each other so hard that both were knocked over! Yes, sir, that is just
what happened. Then both those little Bears lost their little tempers.
They forgot all about Peter Rabbit. Each blamed the other. They
scrambled to their feet. Quick as a flash Boxer reached out and boxed
his sister side of the head. “Why don’t you look where you are going?”
he snapped.

Woof-Woof was quite as quick as Boxer. Slap went one of her paws
against the side of Boxer’s face. “Do some looking out yourself!” she
sputtered.

They stood up and danced around each other, cuffing and slapping and
saying unkind things. They glared at each other with little eyes
red with anger. Boxer suddenly threw his arms around Woof-Woof and
upset her. Then they rolled over and over on the ground, striking,
scratching, and trying to bite. First one would be on top, then the
other. Over and over they tumbled, so fast that had you been there you
would have seen such a mix-up of little Bears that you wouldn’t have
been able to tell one from the other.

It was dreadful for those twins to fight. But they had lost their
tempers and there they were. You would never have guessed that they
were brother and sister. After a while they were so out of breath that
they had to stop.

“What are we fighting for?” asked Boxer, looking a little shame-faced
as he rubbed one ear.

“I don’t know,” confessed Woof-Woof, rubbing her nose.

“I-I-guess I lost my temper because you ran into me,” said Boxer.

“I didn’t. You ran into me,” declared Woof-Woof.

“No such thing!” growled Boxer, his eyes beginning to grow red again.
“You ran into me.”

Woof-Woofs little eyes began to snap, and I am afraid that there would
have been another dreadful scene had not the memory of Peter Rabbit
popped into Boxer’s head just then.

“Where’s that long-legged fellow we were after?” he cried. “It was all
his fault.”

The cubs scrambled to their feet and looked this way and that way, but
Peter Rabbit was nowhere to be seen.




CHAPTER XIV

TWO FOOLISH-FEELING LITTLE BEARS

  Who lets his temper get away
  Is bound to find it doesn’t pay.

                    _Mother Bear._


If ever there were two foolish-feeling little Bears, the twins of
Buster Bear were those two. And they looked just as foolish as they
felt. While they had been fighting, Peter Rabbit had made the most of
his chance and the best use of his legs and had disappeared. Where he
had gone neither Boxer nor Woof-Woof had the least idea.

They looked this way. They looked that way. They peered under the pile
of brush. They even tore it all apart. There was no sign of Peter. As
a matter of fact, Peter was far away, headed straight for the dear Old
Briar-patch; and Peter was chuckling. The instant those cubs began to
fight, all fear had left Peter. He knew then that he had nothing more
to fear from them.

“People who lose their tempers lose their wits with them,” chuckled
Peter. “I couldn’t have done that better if I had planned it. My,
how those cubs have grown! I think I’ll keep away from that part of
the Green Forest. Yes, sir, I’ll keep away from there.” And in that
decision Peter showed that he wasn’t yet too old to learn a lesson and
gain wisdom therefrom.

At last the twins gave up looking for Peter. “I-I-I hope I didn’t hurt
you,” said Boxer meekly, as he saw Woof-Woof rub her nose again. “I
didn’t mean to.”

“Yes, you did,” retorted Woof-Woof. “You did mean to hurt me. I know,
because I know you felt just as I did, and I meant to hurt you. I-I-I
hope I didn’t.”

“Not much,” replied Boxer sheepishly as he felt of one ear.

“I guess we are even. That fellow we didn’t catch probably is laughing
at us and will tell everybody he meets what silly little Bears we are.
I guess it doesn’t pay to fight.”

“That depends,” said a deep, grumbly-rumbly voice. The twins turned to
find Mother Bear looking at them. “It never pays to fight excepting for
your rights, but the one who will not fight for his rights never will
get far in the Great World. Neither will the one who is always ready to
fight over nothing. Now what have you been fighting about?”

Feeling more and more foolish every minute, the twins told Mother Bear
all about Peter Rabbit, how they had tried to catch him, and how they
had lost their tempers when they bumped into each other.

Mother Bear’s eyes twinkled, but she took care that the twins should
not see that twinkle.

“You ought to be spanked, both of you,” said she sternly; “and the next
time I know of you fighting you will be spanked. I won’t spank you this
time, because I hope you have learned a lesson. When two people fight
over a thing, some one else is likely to get it. People who lose their
tempers usually lose more, just as you lost your chance to catch Peter
Rabbit. Now all the Green Forest will laugh at you, and Peter Rabbit
will boast that he was smarter than two Bears.”

“We’ll get even with him yet,” muttered Boxer.

“No, you won’t,” declared Mother Bear. “Peter Rabbit will never give
you a chance.”

And this is exactly what Peter Rabbit had resolved himself.




CHAPTER XV

THE TWINS MEET THEIR FATHER

  Beware the stranger with a smile
  Lest it but hide a trickster’s guile.

                         _Mother Bear._


Boxer and Woof-Woof had begun to wonder if they and their mother were
the only Bears in the Green Forest. So far they had seen no other.
Then one day as they were playing about near the Laughing Brook, while
Mother Bear was busy a little way off tearing open an old stump after
ants, Woof-Woof discovered a footprint. She showed it to Boxer. Then
the two little cubs sat up and stared at each other and their little
eyes were very round with wonder.

“Mother Bear didn’t make that footprint,” whispered Boxer as if he were
afraid of being overheard. “Who do you suppose did?”

Woof-Woof moved a little nearer to Boxer. “I haven’t any idea,” she
whispered back, and hurriedly glanced all around. “It wasn’t Mother
Bear, for there is one of her footprints right over there, and it is
different. There must be a great big stranger around here.”

The twins drew very close together and stood up that they might better
stare in every direction. They were a little frightened at the thought
that a big stranger might be near. Then they remembered that Mother
Bear was only a little way off, and at once they felt better. They saw
no stranger. Everything about them seemed just as it should be. They
cocked their little ears to listen. All they heard was the sound of
Mother Bear’s great claws tearing open that old stump, the cawing of
Blacky the Crow far in the distance, the gurgle of the Laughing Brook,
and the whispering of the Merry Little Breezes in the tree tops.

Now not even Peter Rabbit has more curiosity than has a little
Bear. Presently Boxer dropped down to all fours and approached that
footprint. Already he had learned that his ears were better than his
eyes and his nose was better than his ears. His eyes had told him
nothing. His ears had told him nothing. Now he would try his nose.

He sniffed at that footprint and the hair along his shoulders rose a
little. His nose told him that that footprint was made by a Bear he
never had seen. There wasn’t any question about it. It told him that
the stranger had passed this way only a short time before. A great
desire to see that stranger took possession of Boxer. Curiosity was
stronger than fear.

“Let’s follow his tracks; perhaps we can see him,” whispered Boxer to
Woof-Woof, and started along with his nose to the ground.

Now whatever one twin did, the other did. So Woof-Woof followed her
brother. One behind the other, their noses to the ground, the twins
stole through the Green Forest. Every once in a while Boxer sat up to
look and listen. When he did this, Woof-Woof did the same thing. It was
very exciting. It was so exciting that they quite forgot Mother Bear
and that they had been told not to go away. So they got farther and
farther from where Mother Bear was at work.

And then, without any warning at all, a great Bear stepped out from
behind a fallen tree. He wore a black coat, and he was just about the
size of Mother Bear. Of course you know who it was. It was Buster Bear.
For the first time in their short lives the twins saw their father and
he saw them. But the twins didn’t know that he was their father, and he
didn’t know that they were his children. Things like that happen in the
Green Forest.




CHAPTER XVI

THE TWINS TAKE TO A TREE

  Run while you may, nor hesitate
  Lest you should prove to be too late.

                         _Mother Bear._


Mother Bear is a very wise mother. One of the first things she taught
the twins was that safety is the first and most important thing. Then
she taught them that it is better to run away from possible danger than
to wait to make sure of the danger.

“No harm comes of running away,” said she, “but if you wait you may
discover your danger too late to run. It is better to run away a
hundred times without cause than to be too late once in time of real
danger.”

So when the twins suddenly came face to face with Buster Bear for the
first time, they did just the right thing. For a second or two they
stared at him in frightened surprise, then they turned and ran.

Do you think it queer that the twins didn’t know their own father?
And do you think it even more queer that Buster Bear didn’t know his
own children? Just remember that they had never seen him and he had
never seen them before. For more than three months after they were
born they hadn’t been out from under that great windfall in the Green
Forest. When they did come out, Buster Bear had been in another part
of the Green Forest. Mother Bear had warned him to keep away from that
windfall, and Buster had obeyed. So Boxer and Woof-Woof had known
nothing about their father and Buster had known nothing about the twins.

Now when Buster saw those cubs, not knowing they were his own, he
was filled with sudden anger. He didn’t want any more Bears in the
Green Forest. He wanted the Green Forest just for himself and Mrs.
Bear. Those young Bears were likely to make a great deal of trouble.
Anyway, they would need a lot of food, and this would mean that it
would be just so much harder for him to get enough to satisfy his own
big appetite. So after the first surprised stare Buster growled. It
was a grumbly-rumbly growl deep down in his throat. The twins heard it
as they started to run, and it was the most awful sound they ever had
heard.

Straight to the nearest tall tree ran the twins, and up they scrambled.
Chatterer the Red Squirrel could hardly have gone up that tree faster.
Somehow they felt safer in a tree than on the ground. Buster Bear
walked over to the foot of the tree and looked up at the cubs. They
were fat, were those cubs. They were very fat.

“They look good enough to eat,” thought Buster, as he stood up at the
foot of the tree, looking up at Boxer and Woof-Woof. “They would make
me a very good dinner. They have no business here, anyway. I’ve been
living on roots and such things so long that a little fresh meat would
taste good. If I go up after them, I can do two things at once, rid the
Green Forest of a pair of troublesome youngsters who are bound to make
trouble, and get a good dinner. I believe I’ll do it.”

Of course this was very dreadful, but you know Buster didn’t know that
those cubs were his own. They meant no more to him than did Peter
Rabbit, and you know he wouldn’t have hesitated an instant to gobble up
Peter if he had had the chance.

Buster looked all around to make sure that no one saw him. Then he dug
his great claws into that tree and started to climb up.




CHAPTER XVII

MOTHER COMES TO THE RESCUE

  In all the world, below, above,
  The greatest thing is mother love.

                      _Mother Bear._


The love of a mother is wonderful beyond all things. There is nothing
to compare with it. There is nothing it will not attempt to do. There
is no danger it will not face. There is no sacrifice it will not make.
It is the most beautiful, the most perfect of all things.

Boxer and Woof-Woof had thought that in climbing a tall tree they were
making themselves safe. It had not entered their funny little heads
that great big Buster Bear would climb that tree. So you can imagine
how terribly frightened they were when Buster started up that tree
after them. They scrambled up and up until they were just as high as
they could get. There they clung with feet and hands, the worst scared
little folks in all the Green Forest.

Now little Bears are much like little boys and girls in very many ways,
and one of these is their faith in mother. Another is that when they
are frightened or in trouble they cry and yell for mother.

That is just what Boxer and Woof-Woof did now. The instant they saw
Buster, they began to whimper and cry softly, and they kept it up as
they scrambled up the trunk of that tree. But when they saw Buster Bear
climbing up after them, they simply opened their months and bawled.

“Mamma! Mamma-a-a!” yelled Boxer, at the top of his lungs.

“Oh-o-o, mamma-a-a!” screamed Woof-Woof.

Now fortunately for the twins, Mother Bear was not so far away that she
couldn’t hear them. By the sound of their voices she knew that this
was no ordinary trouble they were in. Terror was in the sound of those
voices. Those twins were in danger. There was no doubt about it. That
danger might be danger for her as well, but she didn’t give that a
thought. She plunged straight in the direction from which those cries
were coming, and she didn’t stop to pick her way. She crashed straight
through brush and branches in her way, jumped over logs, and broke down
young trees.

At the sound of the first crash made by Mother Bear as she started for
those cubs, Buster Bear stopped climbing. He turned his head and looked
anxiously in that direction, his little ears cocked to catch every
sound. At the second crash Buster Bear decided that that was no place
for him. He didn’t stop to climb down. He simply let go and dropped.
Yes, sir, that is what he did. He let go and dropped.

It was quite a way to the ground, but the ground was where Buster Bear
wanted to be, and he wanted to be there right away. He wanted to be
there before whoever was coming could reach that tree. And the quickest
way of getting there was to drop. A few bruises and a shaking up were
nothing to Buster Bear just then.

The grunt he gave when he hit the ground even the twins heard way up in
the top of the tree. It made them stop bawling for a minute to wonder
if Buster had been killed. But Buster hadn’t been killed. Goodness, no!
In an instant he was on his feet and running away so fast that even
Lightfoot the Deer would have had to do his best to keep up with him.
And over his shoulder Buster Bear was throwing frightened glances.

He was not out of sight when Mother Bear burst out from among the
trees. She saw him instantly. With a roar of rage, she started after
Buster. Buster had seemed to be moving fast, but it was nothing
compared to the way he moved when he heard that roar.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE TWINS ARE COMFORTED

  There is no comfort quite like that
  Contained in mother’s loving pat.

                       _Mother Bear._


The instant they saw Mother Bear, the twins stopped bawling. Nothing
could harm them now. They knew it. Mother would take care of them.
Of that there wasn’t a shadow of a doubt in the minds of Boxer and
Woof-Woof. Hanging on with every claw of hands and feet, they leaned
out as far as they could to see what would happen to that great black
Bear who had frightened them so.

But nothing happened to Buster Bear for the very good reason that he
didn’t wait for anything to happen. Buster was doing no waiting at all.
In fact, he was moving so fast and at the same time trying to watch
behind him that he didn’t even pick his path. He bumped into trees
and stumbled over logs in a way that to say the least was not at all
dignified. But Buster was in too much of a hurry to think of dignity.
There was something about the looks of Mother Bear as she tore after
him that made him feel sure that he would find it much pleasanter in
another part of the Green Forest, and he was in a hurry to get there.

Mother Bear didn’t follow him far, only just far enough to make sure
that he intended to keep right on going. Then, growling dreadful
threats, she hurried back to the tree in which the cubs were. Boxer
and Woof-Woof were already scrambling down as fast as they could,
whimpering a little, for though they felt wholly safe now, they were
not yet over their fright. She reached the foot of the tree just as
they reached the ground.

She sat up and the twins rushed to her and snuggled as close to her as
they could get. Mother Bear put a big arm around each and patted them
gently. It was surprising how gentle great big Mother Bear could be.

“Wha-wha-what would that awful fellow have done to us?” asked
Woof-Woof, crowding still closer to Mother Bear.

“Eaten you,” growled Mother Bear, and little cold shivers ran all over
Woof-Woof and Boxer.

“I hate him!” declared Boxer.

“So do I!” cried Woof-Woof. “I think he is dreadful, and I hope we’ll
never, never, never, see him again!”

“But you will,” replied Mother Bear. “I don’t think you’ll see him
again right away, for he knows it isn’t wise for him to hang around
here when I am about. But by and by, when you are bigger, you will see
him often. The fact is, he is your father.”

“What!” screamed the twins, quite horrified. “That dreadful fellow our
father!”

“Just so,” growled Mrs. Bear. “Just so. And he isn’t dreadful at all.
You mustn’t speak of your father that way.”

“But if it isn’t dreadful for a father to want to eat his own children,
I guess I don’t know what dreadful means,” declared Boxer in a most
decided tone. “I call it dreadful, and I hate him. I do so.”

“Softly, Boxer. Softly,” chided Mother Bear. “You see, he didn’t know
you were his children. He knows it now, but until he saw me coming to
your rescue he didn’t know it. He never had seen you before. You were
simply two tempting-looking little strangers who, if I do say it, look
good enough to eat.” She squeezed them and patted them fondly. “His
name,” she added, “is Buster Bear.”




CHAPTER XIX

THE CUBS TALK IT OVER

  Things seem good or things seem bad
  According to the view you’ve had.

                       _Mother Bear._


That is why people so often cannot agree. Each sees a thing from a
different point of view and so it looks different. Just take the case
of Buster Bear and the twins. When Boxer and Woof-Woof looked down at
Buster Bear climbing the tree after them, he seemed a terrible fellow.
But when they saw him running from Mother Bear, he didn’t seem so very
terrible after all.

Of course it was a great surprise to the cubs to learn that Buster
Bear was their father. They couldn’t think or talk of anything else the
rest of that day.

“Did you notice what a beautiful black coat he had?” asked Boxer,
glancing at his own little black coat with pride.

“I like brown better myself,” sniffed Woof-Woof, whose coat was brown
like their mother’s.

“He really is very big and handsome,” continued Boxer.

“And a coward,” sniffed Woof-Woof. “You noticed how he ran from Mother
Bear.”

“That was because he discovered his mistake about us. Of course he
wouldn’t fight then,” Boxer said in defense.

“I don’t care, I think he is a poor sort of a father, and I’m not a bit
proud of him,” persisted Woof-Woof.

“I hope I grow up to be as big and handsome as he is. I’m glad my coat
is black,” Boxer declared.

“Huh!” sniffed Woof-Woof. “A black coat may cover a black heart. We are
lucky not to be inside that black coat of his right now.”

This was true, and Boxer knew it. He wisely attempted no reply. “Where
do you suppose he lives?” he ventured.

“I haven’t the least idea, but I hope it isn’t near here. I don’t want
to see him again ever,” retorted Woof-Woof.

“But he is your own father,” protested Boxer.

“I don’t care. If all fathers are like him, I don’t think much of
fathers,” sputtered Woof-Woof.

Mother Bear came up just in time to hear this. “Tut, tut, tut,” said
she. “I won’t have you talking that way about your father. By and by
you will know him better and learn to respect him. He is the handsomest
Bear I have ever seen, and some day you will be proud that he is your
father.”

“I like mothers best,” confided Woof-Woof, snuggling up to Mother Bear.
Mother Bear’s face suddenly grew very stern. “I want to know,” said
she, “how he happened to find you up that tree.”

“We-we met him and he chased us up that tree,” explained Boxer.

“And how did you happen to meet him?” persisted Mother Bear. “That tree
was a long way from where I left you at play and charged you to stay.”

The cubs hung their heads.

“We-we-we found his tracks and followed them,” stammered Boxer in a low
voice.

“And got a fright, which was no more than you deserved,” declared
Mother Bear. “You ought to be spanked, both of you, for your
disobedience. Now you see what comes of not minding. I hope the fright
you have had will be a lesson you never will forget. And don’t let me
hear you say another word against your father.”

“No’m,” replied the twins meekly.




CHAPTER XX

THE TWINS GET THEIR FIRST BATH

  You cannot learn to swim on land,
    So waste no time in trying.
  And if you keep from getting wet
    You’ll never need a drying.

                     _Mother Bear._


Wonderful days were these for the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof. Every
day there was something new to see or hear or taste or smell or feel.
And then there had to be tucked away in each funny little head where
it could not be forgotten the memory of exactly how each of these new
things looked or sounded or tasted or smelled or felt. Mother Bear was
very particular about this. So, though the twins didn’t know it, they
were really going to school all the time that they thought they were
simply having good times and wonderful adventures.

One day Mother Bear led them over to the pond of Paddy the Beaver. How
the cubs did stare when they got their first glimpse of that pond. The
Laughing Brook was the only water they were acquainted with, and in
that part of the Green Forest it was narrow and the pools were very
small. They had not supposed there was so much water in all the Great
World as now lay before them in the pond of Paddy the Beaver.

Mother Bear led the way straight to one end of the dam which Paddy
had built to make that pond. She started across that dam. The twins
followed. Every few steps they stopped to wonder at that pond. The
Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were dancing across the
middle of it and making little ripples that sparkled as the Jolly
Little Sunbeams kissed them.

Close to the dam the water was smooth, for the Merry Little Breezes had
not come in there. Boxer and Woof-Woof looked down. Perhaps you can
guess how they felt when they saw two little Bears of just their size
staring back at them. The twins were so surprised that they backed
away hastily. The stranger cubs did exactly the same thing. This gave
Boxer and Woof-Woof confidence. They moved forward to the very edge of
the dam, and there they sat up.

When they did this they lost sight of the other little Bears. They
didn’t know what to make of it. Then Boxer happened to look down in the
water. There were the stranger cubs sitting up and doing exactly as he
and Woof-Woof did. Stranger still, one of them was dressed in black and
one in brown, and the latter looked so exactly like his sister that
Boxer turned to look at her, to make sure that she was beside him
there on the edge of the dam.

Boxer dropped down on all fours. The little stranger in black did the
same thing. It provoked Boxer. Like a flash he struck at that stranger.
Quick as he was, the stranger was as quick. Boxer saw a stout little
paw exactly like his own coming toward him. He dodged, and as he did
so his own swiftly moving little paw struck--nothing but water. It so
surprised Boxer that he lost his balance, and in he tumbled with a
splash.

[Illustration: IT WAS THE FIRST TIME THEY EVER HAD BEEN IN THE WATER
ALL OVER. _Page 121._]

Now Woof-Woof had been so intent on the little stranger in brown
that she had paid no attention to Boxer. Woof-Woof was rather
better-natured than her small brother. She had no desire to quarrel
with these strangers. Slowly, very slowly, she stretched her head
toward the little stranger in brown. The latter did just the same
thing. They were just about to touch noses when Boxer fell in. The
splash startled Woof-Woof so that she lost her balance, and in she went
headfirst with a splash quite equal to that of Boxer.

If ever there were two frightened little Bears, they were the twins. It
was the first time they ever had been in the water all over. They tried
to run, but there was nothing for their feet to touch. This frightened
them still more, and they made their legs go faster. Then they
discovered that they were moving through the water; they were swimming!
they were getting their first bath and their first swimming lesson at
the same time.




CHAPTER XXI

THE TWINS ARE STILL PUZZLED

  To have true faith is to believe
  E’en when appearances deceive.

                    _Mother Bear._


It wouldn’t be quite truthful to say that the twins enjoyed that first
bath and swim. They didn’t. In the first place, they had gone in all
over without the least intention of doing so. In fact, they had tumbled
in. This had frightened them. They had opened their mouths to yell and
had swallowed more water than was at all pleasant. Some of it had gone
down the wrong way, and this had choked them. No, the twins didn’t
enjoy that first bath and swim at all.

They climbed out on the dam of Paddy the Beaver and shook themselves,
making the water fly from their coats in a shower. Mother Bear had
started back at the sound of the splashes they had made when they fell
in, but seeing them safe, she grinned and went on about her own affairs.

“This has saved me some trouble,” muttered she. “I probably would have
had hard work to get them into the water without throwing them in. Now
they will not be afraid of it. An accident sometimes proves a blessing.”

Meanwhile the twins had shaken themselves as nearly dry as they could
and were now sitting down side by side, gravely staring at the water.
There was something very mysterious about that water. They felt that
somehow it had played them a trick; that it was its fault that they had
fallen in.

Suddenly Boxer remembered the two little stranger Bears. What had
become of them? In the excitement he had forgotten all about them. He
remembered that it was while striking at one of them he had fallen in.
That little Bear had struck at him at the same time. Boxer couldn’t
recall being hit or striking anything but that water. Then he had
tumbled in.

But had he tumbled in? Hadn’t he been pulled in? Hadn’t that other
little Bear grabbed him and pulled him in? The instant that idea popped
into his head, Boxer was sure that that was how it all came about. He
glared as much as such a little Bear could glare all around in search
of that other little Bear, but no other little Bear but his sister
Woof-Woof was to be seen. She was solemnly gazing at the water.

Now of course the splashing of the twins had made a lot of ripples on
the surface of the water and these destroyed all reflections. But by
now the water had become calm again. Woof-Woof happened to look down
into it almost at her feet. A little brown Bear looked back at her. It
was the same little brown Bear with whom she had tried to touch noses
just before she fell into the water.

Woof-Woof poked Boxer and pointed down at the water. Boxer looked.
There was that same provoking little black Bear. Boxer lifted his lips
and snarled. The other little Bear lifted his lips in exactly the same
way, but Boxer heard no sound save his own snarl. Boxer opened his
mouth and showed all his teeth. The other little Bear opened his mouth
and showed all his teeth. Whatever Boxer did, the other little Bear
did. And it was just the same with Woof-Woof and the little brown Bear.

Boxer was tempted to strike at that little Bear as he had before, but
just as he was about to do it, he remembered what happened before. This
caused him to back away hastily. He wouldn’t give that other fellow a
chance to pull him in again. When he backed away, the other little Bear
did the same thing. In a few steps he disappeared. Boxer cautiously
stole forward. The other little Bear came to meet him.

If ever there were two puzzled little Bears they were Boxer and
Woof-Woof, as they tried to get acquainted with their own reflections
in the pond of Paddy the Beaver.




CHAPTER XXII

BOXER GETS A SPANKING

  Who fails to spank should have a care;
  The well spanked cub, the well trained Bear.

                                _Mother Bear._


Wherever Mother Bear went the twins went. In the first place they were
so full of life and mischief that Mother Bear didn’t dare leave them
for any length of time. Then, too, it was good for them to be with her,
for thus they learned many things that they could not have learned
otherwise.

But there were times when Mother Bear found Boxer and Woof-Woof very
much in the way. Such times she was likely to send them up a tree and
tell them to remain there until her return. She always felt that they
were quite safe so long as they were up in a tree, where there was no
real mischief they could get into.

It happened that one morning Mrs. Bear sent them up a tall pine tree
with strict orders to stay there until her return. “Don’t you dare come
down from that tree until I tell you you may,” said she in her deep,
grumbly-rumbly voice, as the twins scrambled up the tree.

“No’m,” replied Woof-Woof meekly. But Boxer didn’t say a word.

No sooner was their mother out of sight than Boxer proposed that they
go down on the ground to play. “She won’t be back for some time,” said
he.

“By the time she does return, we will be back up here and she will
never know anything about it. Come on, Woof-Woof.”

Woof-Woof shook her head. “I’m going to stay right here,” said she,
“and you’d better do the same thing, Boxer. If you get caught, you’ll
get a spanking.”

“Pooh! Who cares for a spanking!” exclaimed Boxer. “Besides, I’m
not going to get one. There isn’t any sense in making us stay up
in this tree. We can’t have any fun up here. Come on down and play
hide-and-seek.”

But Woof-Woof wouldn’t do it. “You’re afraid!” declared Boxer.

“I’m not afraid!” retorted Woof-Woof indignantly. “You heard what
Mother Bear said and you better mind. You may be sorry if you don’t.”

“Fraidy! Fraidy!” jeered Boxer, as he slid down the trunk of the tree.

Now Boxer hadn’t intended to go more than a few feet from the foot of
that tree. He wanted to be near enough to scramble up again at the
first hint of Mother Bear’s approach. But there was nothing to do down
there, and without Woof-Woof to play with he found it very dull.

Little Bears are very restless and uneasy. Boxer walked round and round
that tree because he could think of nothing else to do. By and by a
Merry Little Breeze happened along and tickled his nose with a strange
smell. The Merry Little Breezes were always doing that. Boxer used to
wonder if he ever would learn all the smells of the Green Forest.

Not having anything else to do just then, Boxer decided that he would
follow up that smell and find out where and what it came from. Off he
started, his inquisitive little nose sniffing the air. After a little
that smell grew fainter and fainter, and finally there wasn’t any.
You see, the Merry Little Breezes were carrying it in quite another
direction.

Boxer turned to go back. He thought he was going straight toward that
tree where Mother Bear had left him. But he wasn’t, and by and by he
discovered that he was lost. Then he began to run, and as he ran he
whimpered. Suddenly out from behind a tree stepped Mother Bear. Boxer
was so glad to see her he quite forgot that he had disobeyed.

But Mother Bear didn’t forget, “What are you doing here?” she demanded.
Boxer hung his head and didn’t say a word.

“A cub who disobeys must be punished,” said Mother Bear, and she
promptly gave Boxer the first real spanking he ever had received. How
he did wish he had stayed up in that tree with Woof-Woof.




CHAPTER XXIII

BOXER IS SULKY

  The world can do quite well without
  The sulky folks and those who pout.

                       _Mother Bear._


Sulky folks are not pleasant to have around. They should be put away
by themselves and kept there until they are through being sulky. Now
ordinarily little Bears are not sulky. It isn’t their nature to be
sulky. But Boxer, the disobedient little cub, was sulky. He was very
sulky indeed. And it was all because of his twin sister, Woof-Woof.

It had been bad enough to be spanked for his disobedience, but Boxer
had felt that he deserved this. He had bawled lustily and then he had
whimpered softly all the way back to that tree in which Woof-Woof had
obediently remained. Until he reached the foot of that tree and looked
up at Woof-Woof, there had been no sulkiness in Boxer.

But when he saw Woof-Woof grinning down at him as if she were glad of
all his trouble, Boxer suddenly felt that he was the most abused little
Bear in all the Great World.

“Don’t you wish you hadn’t tried to be so smart?” whispered Woof-Woof,
when at Mother Bear’s command she had joined Boxer on the ground. “I
heard you bawling. I guess next time you’ll be good like me.”

This was too much for Boxer, and he struck at Woof-Woof.

Instantly he felt the sting of Mother Bear’s big paw. It made him
squeal. Woof-Woof grinned at him again, but she took care that Mother
Bear shouldn’t see that grin. Woof-Woof actually seemed to enjoy seeing
Boxer in trouble. Little folks and some big ones often are that way.

So, because with Mother Bear there he had no chance to show his spite
to Woof-Woof, Boxer sulked. He wanted to be by himself just to pity
himself. Instead of walking close at the heels of Mother Bear as
usual, he allowed Woof-Woof to take that place, and he tagged on
behind just as far back as he dared to. Once in a while Woof-Woof would
turn her head and make a face at him. Boxer pretended not to see this.

When they stopped to rest, Boxer curled up by himself and pretended to
have a nap, while all the time he was just sulking. When after a while
Woof-Woof tried to make friends with him, he would have nothing to do
with her. Boxer was actually having a good time being miserable. People
can get that way sometimes.

Finally Mother Bear lost patience and sent him in under the great
windfall to the bedroom where he was born. “Stay in there until you get
over being sulky,” said she. “Don’t put foot outside until you can be
pleasant.”

So Boxer crept under the great windfall to the bedroom where he had
spent his babyhood. There he curled up and was more sulky then ever.
He said to himself that he hated Mother Bear and he hated his sister,
Woof-Woof. He didn’t do anything of the kind. He loved both dearly.
But he tried to make himself believe that he hated them. People in the
sulks are very fond of doing things like that.

So while Woof-Woof went over to the Laughing Brook with Mother Bear,
under the great windfall Boxer lay and sulked and tried to think of
some way of getting even with Mother Bear and Woof-Woof.




CHAPTER XXIV

BOXER STARTS OUT TO GET EVEN

  Wait a minute; count the cost.
  Wasted time is time that’s lost.

                    _Mother Bear._


Boxer lay curled up in a corner of the bedroom under the great
windfall, and there he sulked and sulked and sulked and tried to make
himself believe he was the worst treated little Bear in all the Great
World. But sulking all alone isn’t any fun at all. No one can truly
enjoy being sulky, with no one to see it. So in spite of himself Boxer
was soon wondering what Woof-Woof and Mother Bear were doing. He had
seen them start off toward the Laughing Brook and though he wouldn’t
own up to it, even to himself, he wished that he was with them. He
dearly loved to play along the Laughing Brook.

When he could stand it no longer, Boxer stole out to the entrance
and poked his head out from under the great windfall. There he stood
for the longest time looking, listening, smelling. Everything looked
just as usual. There were no strange sounds. The Merry Little Breezes
brought him no new smells. There were no signs of Mother Bear and
Woof-Woof. He didn’t know whether they had gone up the Laughing Brook
or down the Laughing Brook. He tried to pretend that he didn’t care
where they were or what they were doing.

But he didn’t succeed. You know it isn’t often you can really and
truly fool yourself. You may fool other people, but not yourself. So
after a while Boxer gave up trying to pretend he didn’t care. And then
sulkiness gave way to temper, bad temper.

“I-I-I’ll go way, way off in the Great World and never come back. Then
I guess Mother Bear and Woof-Woof will be sorry and wish they had been
good to me,” muttered Boxer.

He stood up for an instant to look and listen. Then that silly little
Bear scampered off as fast as he could go, without paying any
attention at all to his direction. His one thought was to get as far
as possible from the great windfall before Mother Bear should return.
He would show Mother Bear that he was too big to be spanked and sent
to bed. He would show Woof-Woof that he could take care of himself and
didn’t need to tag along after Mother Bear.

So Boxer ran and ran until his little legs grew tired. The only use he
made of his eyes was to keep looking behind him to see if Mother Bear
was after him. Not once did he use them to take note of the way in
which he was going. So it was that when at last he stopped, because his
legs ached and he was out of breath, Boxer was as completely lost as
a little Bear could be. He didn’t know it then, but he was. He was to
find it out later.

“Now,” said Boxer, talking to himself as he rested, “I guess Mother
Bear will be sorry she spanked me. And I guess Woof-Woof will wish she
hadn’t laughed at me and made fun of me. Maybe they’ll be so sorry
they’ll cry. If they come to look for me, I’ll hide where they won’t
ever find me. Then they’ll be sorrier than ever and I’ll be even with
them. I won’t go home until I am as big as my father, Buster Bear. Then
I guess they’ll treat me nice.”

So Boxer rested and planned the wonderful things he would do out in the
Great World and was glad he had run away from home. You see, it was
very pleasant there in the Green Forest, and after all, if he really
wanted to, he could go back home. That is what he thought, anyway. You
see, he hadn’t the least idea yet that he was lost.




CHAPTER XXV

CHATTERER HAS FUN WITH BOXER

  Who does not fear to take a chance
  Will make the most of circumstance.

                       _Mother Bear._


That is Chatterer all over. In all the Green Forest there is no one
who appears to enjoy mischief so thoroughly as does Chatterer the Red
Squirrel. And there is no one more ready to take a chance when it
offers.

It happened that Chatterer discovered Boxer, the runaway little Bear,
as he rested and planned what he would do out in the Great World.
Chatterer kept quiet until he was sure that Boxer was alone; that
Mother Bear and Woof-Woof were nowhere near. When he was sure of this,
Chatterer guessed just what had happened. He guessed that Boxer had run
away. You know Chatterer is one of the sharpest and shrewdest of all
the little people in the Green Forest.

Chatterer grinned. “I believe,” said he to himself, “that that silly
little Bear has run away and is lost. If he isn’t lost, he ought to
be, and I’ll see to it that he is. Yes, Sir, I’ll see to it that he is
properly lost. This is my chance to get even for the fright he and his
sister gave me when they chased me up a tree.”

Chatterer once more looked everywhere to make sure no one else was
about. Then he lightly jumped over into the tree under which Boxer was
sitting. He took care to make no sound. He crept out on a limb directly
over Boxer and then he dropped a pine cone.

The pine cone hit Boxer right on the end of his nose, and because his
nose is rather tender, it hurt. It made the tears come. Then, too, it
was so unexpected it startled Boxer. “Ouch!” he cried, as he sprang to
one side and looked up to see where that cone had come from.

When he saw Chatterer grinning down at him, Boxer grew very angry. That
was the same fellow he once had so nearly caught in a tree top. This
time he would catch him. Down came another cone on Boxer’s head.

“Can’t catch me! Can’t catch me!” taunted Chatterer, in the most
provoking way.

Boxer growled and started up that tree. “Can’t catch a flea! Can’t
catch me!” cried Chatterer gleefully, as he looked down at Boxer and
made faces at him.

He waited until Boxer was halfway up that tree then lightly ran out to
the end of a branch and leaped across to a branch of the next tree.
From there he called Boxer all sorts of names and made fun of him
until the little Bear was so angry he hardly knew what he was doing.
Of course he couldn’t jump across as Chatterer had. He was too big to
run out on a branch that way, even had he dared try it. So there was
nothing to do but to scramble down that tree and climb the next one.

Boxer started down. When he reached the ground, he found Chatterer also
on the ground. “Can’t catch a flea! Can’t catch me!” shouted Chatterer
more provokingly than ever.

“I can catch any Red Squirrel that lives,” growled Boxer and jumped at
Chatterer. Chatterer dodged and ran, Boxer after him. Around trees and
stumps, this way, that way and the other way, over logs, behind piles
of brush Chatterer led Boxer, until the latter was so out of breath he
had to stop.

Chatterer chuckled. “I guess that now he is quite properly lost,” said
he to himself, as he ran up a tree and dropped another cone on Boxer.
“I guess I’ve turned him around so many times he hasn’t any idea where
home is or anything else, for that matter. I haven’t had so much fun
for a long time.”

He dropped another cone on Boxer and then started off through the tree
tops, leaving Boxer all alone.




CHAPTER XXVI

ALONE AND LOST IN THE GREAT WORLD

  He truly brave is who can be
  No whit less brave with none to see.

                        _Mother Bear._


Somehow it is easier to be brave when there are others about to see how
brave you are. It is a great deal easier. To be brave when you are all
alone is quite another matter. That is real bravery. And to be alone
and lost and brave is the greatest bravery.

When Chatterer the Red Squirrel raced away through the tree tops,
leaving Boxer alone to recover his breath and rest his weary little
legs, he left a little Bear as completely lost as ever a little Bear
had been since the beginning of the Great World. Boxer didn’t know it
then. He was too busy getting his breath and thinking how good it was
to rest to think of anything else.

But after awhile Boxer felt quite himself again, and once more his
anger at Chatterer the Red Squirrel began to rise. Boxer looked all
about for Chatterer. There was no sign of him. Boxer swelled up with a
feeling of importance.

“That fellow must be hiding. I guess I’ve given him a scare he won’t
forget in a hurry,” boasted Boxer. How that would have tickled
Chatterer had he heard it.

Now that Chatterer had disappeared, Boxer began to wonder what he
should do next. It suddenly came to him that he was in a strange
place. None of the trees or stumps about there was familiar. There
wasn’t a single familiar thing to be seen anywhere. A queer feeling
of uneasiness crept over Boxer. He couldn’t sit still. No, Sir, he
couldn’t sit still. He didn’t know why, but he couldn’t. So Boxer
started on aimlessly. He had nothing in particular to do and nowhere in
particular to go.

Presently he noticed the first of the Black Shadows creeping through
the Green Forest. Somehow those Black Shadows made him think of home.
Probably Mother Bear and Woof-Woof were back there by this time. He
wondered if they had missed him and would start looking for him. If
he didn’t see them, how would he ever know whether or not they looked
for him? How would he ever know if he really did get even with them by
making them anxious? Why not go back near the great windfall and watch?

“Of course I won’t go home,” muttered Boxer to himself, as he shuffled
along. “I’ve left home for good. I’ll just go back and hide near there
where I can watch and see all that happens. It will be great fun to
watch Mother Bear and Woof-Woof hunt for me. I guess I’ll hurry a
little,” he added, as he noticed how the creeping Black Shadows had
increased. So Boxer began to run.

“I didn’t think home was so far,” he panted at last, looking fearfully
over his shoulder at the Black Shadows. “Ha, there is the great
windfall!” he added joyously, as he spied a pile of fallen trees in the
distance.

He approached it carefully, stopping often to look and listen, for you
know he didn’t want to be seen by Mother Bear or Woof-Woof. At least,
he thought he didn’t want to be seen by them, though way down inside
that was just what he did want.

He heard no one and saw no one. Presently he was close to that
windfall. A great longing for home swept over him. He no longer wanted
to get even with anybody. All he wanted was home and mother. Perhaps
Mother Bear and Woof-Woof hadn’t returned yet and he could slip in.
Then they would never know. Boxer slipped around the old windfall to
where he thought the entrance was. There wasn’t any! It wasn’t the
right windfall! Boxer knew right then and there that he was lost, that
he was a lone, lost little Bear out in the Great World. He sat down and
began to cry.




CHAPTER XXVII

A DREADFUL NIGHT FOR A LITTLE BEAR

  A lot of people, great and small,
    Are like a frightened little Bear--
  Where danger there is none at all
    They somehow get a dreadful scare.

                         _Mother Bear._


More and more Black Shadows crept through the Green Forest and all
around Boxer, the lone, lost little Bear, as he sat crying and wishing
with all his might that he never, never had thought of running away.
He wanted to be back in the great windfall which had been his home. He
wanted Mother Bear. “Boo, hoo, hoo,” sobbed the little Bear, “I would
just as soon have a spanking. I wouldn’t mind it at all if only I had
my Mother. Boo, hoo, hoo.”

Now there are many keen ears in the Green Forest after dark, and no one
can cry there and not be heard. Hooty the Owl was the first to hear
those sobs, and on wings that made no sound at all he flew to see what
was the matter. Perched on top of a tall stump just back of Boxer, it
didn’t take Hooty long to understand that this little Bear was lost.

“He needs a lesson,” thought Hooty. “He needs a lesson. He must have
run away from home. There is nothing around here for him to fear, but
it will be a good thing for him to think here is. Here goes to give him
a scare he won’t forget in a hurry.”

Hooty drew a long breath and then hooted as only he can. It was so
sudden, so loud and so fierce, that it was enough to frighten even one
accustomed to it. Boxer, who never had heard that call close at hand
before, was so frightened he lost his balance and fell over on his
back, his legs waving helplessly. But he didn’t stay on his back. I
should say not! In a twinkling he was on his feet and running pell-mell.

Again rang out Hooty’s terrible hunting call, and Boxer was sure
that it was right at his heels. As a matter of fact, Hooty had not
moved from the tall stump. Headlong Boxer raced through the woods. And
because it was quite dark and because he was trying to look behind him,
instead of watching where he was going, he pitched heels over head down
the bank of the Laughing Brook, splash into a little pool where Billy
Mink was fishing. The tumble and the wetting frightened the little Bear
more than ever, and Billy Mink’s angry snarl didn’t make him feel any
better. Without so much as a glance at Billy Mink, he scrambled to his
feet and up the bank, sure that a new and terrible enemy was at his
heels.

More heedlessly than ever he raced through the Green Forest and just by
chance entered the thicket where Mrs. Lightfoot the Deer had a certain
wonderful secret. Mrs. Lightfoot jumped, making a crash of brush.

“Oh-oo,” moaned Boxer, dodging to one side and continuing headlong.
When he could run no more, he crept under a pile of brush and there
he spent the rest of the night, the most dreadful night he ever had
known or was likely ever to know again. Old Man Coyote happened along
and yelled as only he can, and unless you know what it is, that sound
is quite dreadful. Boxer never had heard it close at hand before, and
he didn’t recognize it. He was sure that only a great and terrible
creature could make such a dreadful noise, and he shook with fear for
an hour after.

So all night long the little Bear heard strange sounds and imagined
dreadful things and couldn’t get a wink of sleep. And all the time not
once was any real danger near him. There wasn’t a single thing to be
afraid of.

[Illustration: HE PITCHED HEELS OVER HEAD DOWN THE BANK OF THE LAUGHING
BROOK. _Page 162._]




CHAPTER XXVIII

BOXER GETS HIS OWN BREAKFAST

  True independence he has earned
  Who for himself to do has learned.

                      _Mother Bear._


It seemed to Boxer, the lost little Bear, that that dreadful night
would last forever; that it never would end. Of course, it didn’t last
any longer than a night at that season of the year usually does, and it
wasn’t dreadful at all. The truth is, it was an unusually fine night,
and everybody but Boxer and anxious Mother Bear thought so.

Perhaps you can guess just how glad Boxer was to see the Jolly Little
Sunbeams chase the Black Shadows out of the Green Forest the next
morning. He still felt frightened and very, very lonesome, but things
looked very different by daylight, and he felt very much braver and
bolder.

First of all, he took a nap. All night he had been awake, for he had
been too frightened to sleep. That nap did him a world of good. When he
awoke, he felt quite like another Bear. And the first thing he thought
of was breakfast.

Now always before Mother Bear had furnished Boxer with his breakfast
and with all his other meals. But there was no Mother Bear to do it
this morning, and his stomach was very empty. If anything were to be
put in it, he was the one who would have to put it there.

Just thinking of breakfast made Boxer hungrier than ever. He couldn’t
lie still. He must have something to eat, and he must have it soon. He
crawled out from under the pile of brush, shook himself, and tried to
decide where to go in search of a breakfast. But being lost, of course
he had no idea which way to turn.

“I guess it doesn’t make much difference,” grumbled Boxer. “Whichever
way I go, I guess I’ll find something to eat if I keep going long
enough.”

So Boxer started out. And because he had something on his mind,
something to do, he forgot that he was lonesome, and he forgot to be
afraid. He just couldn’t think of anything but breakfast. Now while he
never had had to get food for himself before, Boxer had watched Mother
Bear getting food and felt that he knew just how to go about it.

He found a thoroughly rotted old stump and pulled it apart. It happened
that he found nothing there to eat. But a few minutes later he forgot
all about this disappointment as he pulled over a small log and saw
ants scurrying in every direction. He promptly swept them into his
mouth with his tongue and smacked his lips at the taste of them. He
didn’t leave that place until not another ant was to be seen.

By and by he dug out certain tender little roots and ate them. How he
knew where to dig for them, he couldn’t have told himself. He just
knew, that was all. Something inside him prompted him to stop and dig,
and he did so.

Once he chased a Wood Mouse into a hole and wasted a lot of time trying
to dig him out. But it was exciting and a lot of fun, so he didn’t mind
much, even when he had to give up. He caught three or four beetles and
near the Laughing Brook surprised a young frog. Altogether he made a
very good breakfast. And because he got it all himself, with no help
from any one, he enjoyed it more than any breakfast he could remember.
And suddenly he felt quite a person of the Great World and quite equal
to taking care of himself. He forgot that he had cried for his mother
only the night before. The Great World wasn’t such a bad place after
all.




CHAPTER XXIX

BOXER HAS A PAINFUL LESSON

  Don’t judge a stranger by his looks,
    Lest they may prove to be deceiving.
  The stupid-looking may be smart
    In ways you’ll find beyond believing.

                           _Mother Bear._


Having succeeded in getting his own breakfast, and a very good one at
that, Boxer felt quite set up, as the saying is. He felt chesty. That
is to say, he felt big, self-important, independent. For a little cub
who had cried most of the night from loneliness and fear, Boxer showed
a surprising change. The light of day, a full stomach, and the feeling
that he was able to take care of himself had made a new Bear of that
little cub. Anyway he felt so and thought so.

“I’m not afraid of anybody or anything,” boasted the foolish little
Bear to himself, as he wandered along through the Green Forest. “I’m
glad I left home. I’m glad I am out in the Great World. I guess I know
about all there is to know. Anyway, I guess I know all there is any
need of knowing.”

As he said this, Boxer stood up and swelled himself out and looked so
funny that Prickly Porky the Porcupine, who happened along just then,
just had to chuckle down inside, and this is something that Prickly
Porky seldom does.

“That little rascal must have run away from his mother, and he thinks
he is smart and knows all there is to know. I don’t believe that even
Mother Bear could tell him anything just now. She would be wasting her
breath. He needs a lesson or two in practical experience. I believe
I’ll give him one just for his own good,” thought Prickly Porky.

There was something almost like a twinkle in Prickly Porky’s usually
dull eyes as he slowly waddled straight toward Boxer. Boxer heard
the rustle of Prickly Porky’s tail dragging through the leaves
and turned to see who was coming. What he saw was, of course, the
stupidest-looking fellow in all the Green Forest.

It was the first time Boxer had seen Prickly Porky, and he had no idea
who he was. Boxer stood up and stared in the rudest and most impolite
manner. He wasn’t afraid. This fellow was no bigger than he, and he was
too stupid-looking and too slow to be dangerous.

Boxer was standing in a narrow little path, and Prickly Porky was
coming up this little path straight toward him. One of them would
have to step aside for the other. It didn’t enter Boxer’s head
that he should be that one. As Prickly Porky drew near, Boxer
growled a warning. It was the best imitation of Mother Bear’s deep,
grumbly-rumbly growl that Boxer could manage. It was hard work for
Prickly Porky to keep from laughing right out when he heard it.

But he acted just as if he didn’t hear it. He kept right on. Then he
pretended to see Boxer for the first time. “Step aside, little cub,
step aside and let me pass,” said he.

To be called “little cub” just when he was feeling so important and
grown-up was more than Boxer could stand. His little eyes grew red with
anger.

“Step aside yourself,” he growled. “Step aside yourself, if you don’t
want to get hurt.”

Prickly Porky didn’t step aside. He kept right on coming. He didn’t
hurry, and he didn’t appear to be in the least afraid. It was plain
that he expected Boxer to get out of his way. Boxer drew back his lips
and showed all his little white teeth. Then he slowly reached out one
paw and prepared to strike Prickly Porky on the side of the head if he
came any nearer.




CHAPTER XXX

BOXER IS SADDER BUT MUCH WISER

  Experience is not a preacher,
  But has no equal as a teacher.

                  _Mother Bear._


Sammy Jay happened along in the Green Forest just in time to see the
meeting between Boxer and Prickly Porky the Porcupine. He saw at once
that this was the first time Boxer had seen Prickly Porky, and that he
had no idea who this fellow in the path was.

“If that little Bear has any sense at all, he’ll be polite and get out
of Prickly Porky’s way,” muttered Sammy. “But I’m afraid he hasn’t
any sense. He looks to me all puffed up, as if he thinks he knows all
there is to know. He’ll find out he doesn’t in just about a minute if
he stays there. Hi, there! Don’t do that! Don’t hit him!”

This last was screamed at Boxer, who had stretched out a paw as if to
strike Prickly Porky as soon as he was near enough. But the warning
came too late. Prickly Porky had kept right on coming along that little
path, and just as Sammy Jay screamed, Boxer struck.

“Wow!” yelled Boxer, dancing about and holding up one paw, the paw with
which he had struck at Prickly Porky, and on his face was such a look
of amazement that Sammy Jay laughed so that he nearly tumbled from his
perch.

“Wow, Wow!” yelled Boxer, still dancing about and shaking that paw.

“Pull it out. Pull it out at once, before it gets in deeper,” commanded
Sammy Jay, when he could stop laughing long enough.

“Pull what out?” asked Boxer rather sullenly, for he didn’t like being
laughed at. No one does when in trouble.

“That little spear that is sticking in your paw,” replied Sammy. “If
you don’t, you’ll have a terribly sore paw.”

Boxer looked at his paw. Sure enough, there was one of Prickly Porky’s
little spears. He took hold of it with his teeth and started to pull.
Then he let go and shook his paw. “Wow! that hurts!” he cried, the
tears in his eyes.

“Of course it hurts,” replied Sammy Jay. “And if you don’t do as I
tell you and pull it out now, it will hurt a great deal more. That paw
will get so sore you can’t use it. It is a lucky thing for you, young
fellow, that you were in too much of a hurry and struck too soon. If
you had waited a second longer, you would have filled your paw with
those little spears. What were you thinking of, anyway? Don’t you know
that no one ever interferes with Prickly Porky? It never pays to. Even
Buster Bear, big as he is, is polite to Prickly Porky.”

Boxer sat down and looked at his paw carefully. That little spear, or
quill, was right in the tenderest part. It must be pulled out. Sammy
Jay was right about that. Boxer shut his teeth on that little spear and
jerked back his head quick and hard. Out came the little spear. Boxer
whimpered a little as he licked the place where the little spear had
been. After he had licked it a minute or two, that paw felt better.

Meanwhile Prickly Porky had paid no attention whatever to the little
Bear. He had slowly waddled on up the little path, quite as if no one
were about. He was attending strictly to his own business. But inside
he was chuckling.

“That scamp got off easy,” he muttered. “It would have been a good
thing for him if he had had a few more of those little spears to pull
out. I guess that in the future he will take care to leave me alone.
There is nothing like teaching the young to respect their elders.”




CHAPTER XXXI

BOXER MEETS A POLITE LITTLE FELLOW

  Because another is polite
  Pray do not think he cannot fight.

                      _Mother Bear._


The memories of little folks are short, so far as their troubles are
concerned. Hardly was Boxer, the runaway little Bear, out of sight of
Prickly Porky the Porcupine than his eyes, ears and nose were so busy
trying to discover new things that he hardly thought of his recent
trouble. To be sure that paw from which he had pulled one of Prickly
Porky’s little spears was sore, but not enough so to worry him much.
And there were so many other things to think about that he couldn’t
waste time on troubles that were over.

So the little Bear wandered this way and that way, as something new
caught his eyes or some strange sound demanded to be looked into. He
was having a wonderful time, for he felt that he was indeed out in the
Great World and it was a wonderful and beautiful place. If he thought
of his twin sister, Woof-Woof, at all, it was to pity her tagging along
at Mother Bear’s heels and doing only those things which Mother Bear
said she could.

By and by something white moving about near an old stump caught
his attention. At once he hurried over to satisfy his curiosity.
When he got near enough he discovered a little fellow dressed in
black-and-white. He had a big plumy tail and he was very busy minding
his own business. He hardly glanced at Boxer.

Boxer stared at him for a few minutes. “Hello,” he ventured finally.

“Good morning. It is a fine morning, isn’t it?” said the little
stranger politely.

“What are you doing?” demanded the little Bear rudely.

“Just minding my own business,” replied the little stranger pleasantly.
“Where is your mother?”

“I don’t know and I don’t care. I’ve left home,” said Boxer, trying to
look big and important.

“You don’t say!” exclaimed the little stranger. “Aren’t you rather
small to be starting out alone in the Great World?”

Now Boxer was so much bigger than this little stranger in
black-and-white, and the little stranger was so very polite, that
already Boxer felt that the little stranger must be afraid of him. All
Boxer’s previous feeling of bigness and importance came back to him. He
wanted to show off. He wanted this little stranger to respect him. To
have that stranger suggest that he was rather small to be out alone in
the Great World hurt Boxer’s pride. In fact, it made him angry.

“If I were as small as you, perhaps I would feel that way,” retorted
Boxer rudely.

“I didn’t use the right word. I should have said young instead of
small,” explained the stranger mildly. “Of course, I am small compared
with you, but I am fully gown and have been out in the Great World a
long time, while you are very young and just starting out. I wonder if
your mother knows where you are.”

“It is none of your business whether my mother knows or not,” retorted
Boxer more rudely than before, for he was growing more and more angry.

“Certainly not. I haven’t said it was,” replied the stranger, still
speaking politely. “I am not in the least interested. Besides, I know
anyway. I know that she doesn’t know. I know that you have run away,
and I know that you have some bitter lessons to learn before you will
be fitted to live by yourself in the Great World. If you will just step
aside, I will be much obliged. There is a big piece of bark just back
of you under which there may be some fat beetles.”




CHAPTER XXXII

BOXER WISHES HE HADN’T

  This is, you’ll find, the law of fate:
  Regrets are always just too late.

                          _Mother Bear._


Sammy Jay had followed Boxer, for he felt sure that things were bound
to happen wherever that little Bear was. So Sammy saw his meeting with
Jimmy Skunk. He saw how polite Jimmy was and how very impolite the
little Bear was.

Sammy understood perfectly. He knew that probably Boxer knew nothing at
all about Jimmy Skunk and never had heard of that little bag of scent
carried by Jimmy and dreaded by all of Jimmy’s neighbors. He knew that
the little Bear was rude, simply because he was so much bigger than
Jimmy Skunk that he could see no reason for being polite, especially as
Jimmy had asked him to do something he didn’t want to do.

When Jimmy Skunk began to lose patience, Sammy Jay thought it was time
for him to give Boxer a little advice. “Don’t be silly! Do as Jimmy
Skunk tells you to, or you will be the sorriest little Bear that ever
lived!” screamed Sammy, as he saw Jimmy’s great plume of a tail begin
to go up, which is Jimmy’s signal of danger.

But Boxer, foolish little Bear that he was, couldn’t see anything
to fear from one so much smaller than he. So he paid no attention to
Jimmy’s request that he step aside. Instead he laughed in the most
impudent way.

“Run! Run!” screamed Sammy Jay.

Boxer didn’t move. Jimmy Skunk stamped angrily with his front feet.
Then something happened. Yes, sir, something happened. It was so sudden
and so unexpected that Boxer didn’t know exactly what had happened, but
he was very much aware that it _had_ happened. Something was in his
eyes and made them smart and for a few minutes blinded him. Something
was choking him; it seemed to him he could hardly breathe. And there
was the most awful odor he ever had smelled.

Boxer rolled over and over and over on the ground. He was trying to get
away from that awful odor. But he couldn’t. He couldn’t, for the very
good reason that he carried it along with him. You see, Jimmy Skunk had
punished that silly little Bear by throwing on him a little of that
powerful scent he always carries with him to use in time of danger or
when provoked.

“What did I tell you? What did I tell you?” screamed Sammy Jay. “I
guess you won’t interfere with Jimmy Skunk again in a hurry. It serves
you right. It serves you just right. But it is hard on the people who
live about here. Yes, sir, it is hard on them to have all the sweetness
of the Green Forest spoiled by that scent of Jimmy Skunk’s. I can’t
stand it myself, so I’ll be moving along. It serves you right, you
silly little Bear. It serves you right.” With this Sammy Jay flew away.

Boxer knew then that Jimmy Skunk had been the cause of this new and
dreadful trouble he was in, and great respect mingled with fear took
possession of him. And oh, how Boxer wished that he hadn’t been
impolite! How he wished he hadn’t refused to do as Jimmy Skunk had
politely asked him to!

“I wish I hadn’t! I wish I hadn’t! I wish I hadn’t!” sobbed Boxer
over and over, as he tried to get away from that dreadful smell and
couldn’t.




CHAPTER XXXIII

WOOF-WOOF TURNS UP HER NOSE

  I pray you be not one of those
  Who boast the scornful turned-up nose.

                          _Mother Bear._


Now all the time that Boxer had been losing himself more and more and
getting into more and more trouble, Mother Bear had been worrying about
him, and she and his twin sister, Woof-Woof, had been everywhere but
the right place looking for him.

You remember that Mother Bear and Woof-Woof had been away from home
when Boxer decided to run away. When they returned, Boxer had been
gone so long that Mother Bear’s nose failed to find enough of his scent
to follow. So when she started to look for him, she started in the
wrong direction. Of course, she had to take Woof-Woof with her, and
because Woof-Woof got tired after a while, Mother Bear couldn’t hunt as
thoroughly as she would have done had she been alone.

At first Woof-Woof felt very badly indeed at the loss of her little
twin brother. Down in her heart she admired him for his boldness in
running away, but when she thought of all the dreadful things that
might happen to him out in the Great World, she became very sorrowful.
This was at first. After she had tramped and tramped and tramped behind
Mother Bear, tramped until her feet ached, she became cross. She blamed
Boxer, and quite rightly, for those aching feet. The more they ached
the crosser she became, until she tried to make herself believe that
she didn’t care what happened to that heedless brother.

“I don’t care if I never see him again,” she grumbled. “I don’t care
what happens to him. Whatever happens will serve him right. I wish
Mother Bear would remember that my legs are not as long as hers. I’m
tired. I want to rest. I want to rest, I do. I want to rest. Ouch! My
feet are getting sore.”

Now such news as Jimmy Skunk’s punishment of Boxer travels fast through
the Green Forest, and it wasn’t long before the story of it reached
Mrs. Bear’s ears. She growled dreadful threats of what she would do if
she met Jimmy Skunk, though she knew very well that she would politely
step aside if she did meet him, and then she started for the place
where Boxer had been given his lessons in politeness by Jimmy Skunk.

There was no doubt about the place when they reached it. “Phew!” cried
Woof-Woof, holding her nose.

Mother Bear merely grunted and started off faster than before.
Woof-Woof had to run to keep up with her. Mother Bear had that smell to
guide her now. She knew that all she had to do now to find her runaway
son was to follow up that smell.

So it was that just as the Black Shadows were beginning to creep
through the Green Forest, and poor little Boxer, a very lonely,
miserable and frightened little Bear, was beginning to dread another
night, he heard a crashing in the brush, and out came Mother Bear and
Woof-Woof. With a glad squeal of joy, Boxer started to run toward them.
But a growl, such an ugly growl, from Mother Bear stopped him.

“Don’t you come near us,” said she. “You can follow us, but don’t you
dare come a step nearer than you are now. It would serve you right if
we had nothing more to do with you, but after all, you are rather small
to be wandering about alone. Besides, there is no knowing what more
disgrace you would get us into. Now come along.”

Boxer looked at Woof-Woof for some sign of sympathy. But Woof-Woof held
her head very high and turned up her nose at him. “Phew!” said she.




CHAPTER XXXIV

ALL IS WELL AT LAST

  If you are taught not to forget
  Your punishment you’ll ne’er regret.

                        _Mother Bear._


Mrs. Bear is one of those mothers who believe in punishment. She
believes that the cub who is never punished for wrong-doing is almost
sure to grow up to be of little or no use in the Great World, provided
he lives to grow up at all. She doubts if he will live to grow up at
all. So her cubs are promptly punished when they disobey or do wrong,
and they are punished in a way to make them remember.

Now when Boxer, the lost little cub who had had such a dreadful time,
saw Mother Bear and his sister Woof-Woof, he thought all his troubles
were at an end. Perhaps you can guess what his feelings were when he
was stopped short by a growl from Mother Bear. He wanted--oh, how he
wanted--to rush up to her and snuggle against her and feel her big paws
gently patting him.

But there was to be none of that. It was plain that Mother Bear meant
exactly what she said when she told him to come no nearer. And when he
looked to his twin sister, Woof-Woof, she turned up her nose and it was
quite clear that she wanted nothing to do with him.

Poor little Boxer. He didn’t understand it at all at first. You see,
in the joy of being found, he had forgotten that he still carried that
dreadful scent with which Jimmy Skunk had punished him, and so no one,
not even his mother or sister, would want him very near. When Woof-Woof
cried “Phew!” as she turned up her nose he remembered. He hung his head
and meekly shuffled along after his mother and sister, taking care to
get no nearer to them. He didn’t dare to, for every few steps Mother
Bear would swing her head around and grumble a warning.

And this was just the beginning of Boxer’s punishment. Day after day
he tagged along, far behind, but always keeping his mother and sister
in sight. You may be sure he took care to do that. He had had quite
enough of seeing the Great World alone. Not for anything would he be
lost again. But it was hard, very hard, to have only what was left
when Mother Bear found a feast. What he didn’t know was that Mother
Bear always took care that there should be a fair share left. At such
times Woof-Woof took great joy in smacking her lips while Boxer sat up
watching from a distance.

When they slept Boxer had to curl up by himself. At first this was the
hardest of all. But little by little he got used to it. He didn’t know
and Woof-Woof didn’t know, but Mother Bear did, that this was good for
him; it was making him more and more sure of himself. And tagging along
behind as he did every day was doing the same thing. He was always
looking for something that Mother Bear and Woof-Woof might have missed.
And so he learned to use his eyes and his nose and his ears better than
Woof-Woof did, for she depended more on Mother Bear, being right at her
heels.

As the days passed, Boxer’s coat became more and more free from that
dreadful scent. Boxer had become so used to it that he didn’t notice
it at all, so he wasn’t conscious when it began to grow less. At last
it got so that it was hardly to be noticed excepting on rainy or very
damp days. For a long time after Mother Bear had permitted him to
resume his place with Woof-Woof, she drove him away on such days.

So at last Boxer’s punishment ended. Mother Bear gave him a good
talking to and said that she hoped this would be a lesson he never
would forget. “Yes’m, it will,” he had replied very meekly, and he knew
it would. Then he took his place once more, save that now, instead of
following at Mother Bear’s heels, he allowed Woof-Woof to do that and
he followed her. Though Woof-Woof didn’t suspect it, he preferred it
so.

So Buster Bear’s twins grew and grew until every one said that they
were the finest young Bears ever seen in the Green Forest.

Billy Mink says that these cubs have received attention enough and
that there are other people who should be considered. Perhaps Billy is
right, though I suspect he is thinking of himself. Anyway this ends the
Green Forest series and the next book will be the first in the Smiling
Pool series. The title will be Billy Mink.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.





End of Project Gutenberg's Buster Bear's Twins, by Thornton W. Burgess

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BUSTER BEAR'S TWINS ***

***** This file should be named 59282-0.txt or 59282-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/2/8/59282/

Produced by Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
